    twiggen bottle.
    -marry, good air. Spread, Davy, spread, Davy; well said, Davy.
  KING HENRY. Ay, and for much more slaughter after this.
  YORK. Well, well, I see the issue of these arms.
     and there again- and there!

    That you unlace your reputation thus,

  PAGE. No, good Master Fenton.
  QUEEN ISABEL. Our gracious brother, I will go with them;  
    That I am proud to hunt.
    Of fortunate Caesar, drawn before him, branded
    Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
    You that have been so tenderly officious
    Whereto the rather shall his day's hard journey
    When I was green in judgment, cold in blood,
    After your way his tale pronounc'd shall bury
  Dog. I leave an arrant knave with your worship, which I beseech
    Together with that pale, that white-fac'd shore,
ANGELO. Then you will bring the chain to her yourself?
    Who art thou?
  GOBBO. I cannot think you are my son.
    The melting spirits of women, then, countrymen,
    often heard of, and it is known to many in our land by the name
    to hack thy sword as thou hast done, and then say it was in
                 Enter as messenger, MONSIEUR MARCADE
  KING. Proceed.
    no worse, if imagination amend them.  
    That ever kept with men.
    ill bestowed!

    that the Princess kill'd.
    accounted a merciful man; good my lord.
  HASTINGS. I'll have this crown of mine cut from my
    Yet, I persuade myself, to speak the truth
    him here as melancholy as a lodge in a warren. I told him, and I
    Have, sure, more lack of reason. What would you say?
  LUCIO. As any in Vienna, on my word.
                                              [Balthasar sings.]
  LUCENTIO. Gramercies, Tranio, well dost thou advise.
                                              Exeunt CORIOLANUS,
    But ever see that man!
    Something's afore't. Soft, soft! we'll no defence!-
  Prince. What, a coward, Sir John Paunch?
    father of a deceitful son.
    Will kneel to him with thanks.
  ENOBARBUS. They are his shards, and he their beetle. [Trumpets
    Without more motive, into every brain
    Have added slaughter to the sword of traitors.
           Then come kiss me, sweet and twenty;
                      Enter HOSTESS and SLY
    Great Albion's Queen in former golden days;
  BEROWNE. Nothing but peace and gentle visitation.
    In riddles and affairs of death,
    These signs have mark'd me extraordinary,
                          [Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]
    other; and so both the degrees prevent my curses. Boy!
                   Let us all ring fancy's knell:

  And all that are assembled in this place
    And leave him all. Life, living, all is Death's.
    Makes the remembrance dear. Well, call him hither;
    Rain'd from the wounds of slaughtered Englishmen;
    always count you my deer.
  KING HENRY. Come hither, you that would be combatants:
    'a? Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where I may find the young
    Of arts inhibited and out of warrant.
    For, knowing thee to be but young and light-
    o'erthrown.
    Were hid against me, now to forgive me frankly.
    What! I love, I sue, I seek a wife-
  HUBERT. Uncleanly scruples! Fear not you. Look to't.
    Great Agamemnon, Nestor shall apply
    So, thrice-fair lady, stand I even so,
    Like to a ship that, having scap'd a tempest,

    Repent at idle times as thou mayst, and so farewell.
    nor cap; and indeed such a fellow, to say precisely, were not for
    Like Perseus' horse. Where's then the saucy boat,
    You do awake your faith. Then all stand still;
ACT_2|SC_7
    wilt, and, thou shalt have it.  
    That's yet unbruis'd; bring me but out at gate.

    Lies in his bed, walks up and down with me,
    Tell him it is for justice and for aid,  
  HERMIONE. Nay, but you will?
    displeasure, and, as he says, is muddied withal. Pray you, sir,
  COSTARD. She's too hard for you at pricks, sir; challenge her to
    And made us speak like friends. This man was riding
    Before the belching whale; then is he yonder,
  Lest sorrow lend me words and words express,
  BURGUNDY. Traitors have never other company.
    Yet know, my lord, I was provok'd by him,
    Or, if I live, is it not very like
    Would without lapsing suffer. Nay, sometimes,
    And find not her whom thou pursuest. Flow, flow,

    I was beset with shame and courtesy;
  BUCKINGHAM. Tut, these are petty faults to faults unknown

  SIWARD. Then he is dead?
    To show us so much gentry and good will
    That shakes the rotten carcass of old Death
    Which, well thou knowest, is cross and full of sin.
A field of battle between Towton and Saxton, in Yorkshire
    But on us both did haggish age steal on,


    Did speak these words, now prov'd a prophecy?
    But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
    clock. If I may be believ'd, so; if not, let them that should
            Not a friend, not a friend greet
  But slave to slavery my sweet'st friend must be?
  BRUTUS. Be patient till the last.
    He show'd his warrant to a friend of mine;
    Suits not in native colours with the truth;
    In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,


    I have too much believ'd mine own suspicion.
  MALVOLIO. They have here propertied me; keep me in darkness, send


  MOTH. Of all the four, or the three, or the two, or one of the
  Clown. Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
  Dog. Why then, let them alone till they are sober. If they make you
    I ask your voices and your suffrages:
    O, by this count I shall be much in years
    The castle of Macduff I will surprise,
    Your brain, and every function of your power,
                                                          Exeunt
    That, having our fair order written down,
     That bear'st a cheek for blows, a head for wrongs;
  FENTON. Yes, marry, have I; what of that?
    Stands with the snares of war to tangle thee.
    Omitting Suffolk's exile, my soul's treasure?
                                                  Tucket within.
    grapes; when he walks, he moves like an engine and the ground

    To my brother John; this to my Lord of Westmoreland.
  LUCIUS' SERVANT. Alas, my lord-
    Servant in arms to Harry King of England;
    Endeavour'd my advancement to the throne.
  ANTONIO. Most heartily I do beseech the court  
    The gates of Rome. Our spoils we have brought home
    A lie that it must bear? Well, I will do't;
    To bring you thus together 'tis no sin,

  GONZALO. All torment, trouble, wonder and amazement,
    Thee and the devil alike.- What ho, Pisanio!-
    Come hither, come! Come, come, and take a queen
                                                         Exeunt.
    As I do live by food, I met a fool,

  DAVY. I beseech you, sir, to countenance William Visor of Woncot
    give me?
    Sink in the ground? I thought it would have mounted.
     Why should a dog, a horse, a rat, have life,
  CRESSIDA. 'Twould not become him: his own's better.
    I faint. O Iras, Charmian! 'Tis no matter.
  TITANIA. Not for thy fairy kingdom. Fairies, away.
  CRESSIDA. If you love an addle egg as well as you love an idle
    As I have done the rest of my misleaders,
  LADY GREY. And that is more than I will yield unto.
    Drives back our troops and conquers as she lists.
    A city on th' inconstant billows dancing;
  BOLINGBROKE. They love not poison that do poison need,
    Majesty for giving up of Normandy unto Mounsieur Basimecu the
    (If ever love had interest in his liver)
    swaggerers here.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. My guilt be on my head, and there an end.
  MENENIUS. Sir, I shall tell you. With a kind of smile,  
    If with myself I hold intelligence,
  LUCENTIO. Now, mistress, profit you in what you read?
    accompany you home.
    Than whom no mortal so magnificent!
    Which that sweet tongue hath made,

<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Filling the air with swords advanc'd and darts,
    Let shame say what it will. When these are gone,
    oats. Methinks I have a great desire to a bottle of hay. Good
    As when they are fresh.
    Having seen but him and Caliban. Foolish wench!
  CORIOLANUS. Come, leave your tears; a brief farewell. The beast
  IAGO. I do not like the office;

    think, if I would think my heart out of thinking, that you are in
    I never look'd for better at his hands
    Remorse from power, and, to speak truth of Caesar,
    the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
    Through your dominions for this enterprise,
  AJAX. Cobloaf!
    And when it bows stand'st up. Thou art left, Marcius;
  Pedro. Amen, if you love her; for the lady is very well worthy.

  SHYLOCK. If every ducat in six thousand ducats
  HELENA. 'Till I have no wife, I have nothing in France.'
    So that this land, like an offensive wife
    Last, and as such containing as all these,
    At home, upon my brother's guard, even there,
    The hateful mansion.                     [Draws his dagger.]
  Ham. Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his Majesty,
  PETRUCHIO. My remedy is then to pluck it out.
    Which in his death were perfect.
    This is one Lucianus, nephew to the King.
    So slight a valuation, should reserve
    The ne'er-lust-wearied Antony.
    And prove a deadly bloodshed but a jest,
    I would I had some flow'rs o' th' spring that might
    From which awak'd, the truth of what we are
    In women's waxen hearts to set their forms!
    First, tell me, have you ever been at Pisa?
    I fear, a madness held me. This must crave-
  BERTRAM. She's none of mine, my lord.
  Gads. Go to; 'homo' is a common name to all men. Bid the ostler
  THURIO. What says she to my birth?
      the whilst BASSANIO comments on the caskets to himself
    But thou slewest Tybalt. There art thou happy too.
  OTHELLO.           Roderigo kill'd?  
    and they unwash'd too, 'tis a foul thing.
  Glend. I will not have it alt'red.
  AGAMEMNON. Fair Lord Aeneas, let me touch your hand;

    work; but what o' that? Your Majesty, and we that have free
    His skill in the construction.
    We made each other but so late ago.
    Of Jaques Falconbridge, solemnized
    That I may swear beauty doth beauty lack,  
  MRS. FORD. Go, go, sweet Sir John. Mistress Page and I will
  But thy eternal summer shall not fade,
    I know, ere thy will have me go to ward,
    Most gentle and most valiant Hector, welcome.
    More like a soldier than a man o' th' church,
    I little like.
    With hard bright steel and hearts harder than steel.
  GREMIO. Hortensio, hark:
    Nor friends nor foes, to me welcome you are.
     As you are old and reverend, you should be wise.
  TIMON. My lord, in heart! and let the health go round.
  What merit do I in my self respect,
    Ever to conquer, and to have his worth  
                      Re-enter BARDOLPH
     If it be man's work, I'll do't.                       Exit.
    Let me be umpire in this doubtful strife.
    Which our divines lose by 'em.
  DUKE. Dear sir, ere long I'll visit you again.
    And I am all forgotten!
    Can wash the balm off from an anointed king;
  DORCAS. Mopsa must be your mistress; marry, garlic,
  SECOND LORD. No, my lord; [Aside] nor crop the ears of them.
    in his head-I'll tell you what I say of him.
    May waste the memory of the former days.
      come.                                         Exit PROVOST
    Than have him hold that purpose, and to put it
    I am as I have spoken.
  Lear. Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!
    A very valiant rebel of the name.  
  ENOBARBUS. But there is never a fair woman has a true face.
  Osw. Away! I have nothing to do with thee.
Enter three or four, and offer to bind him. He strives
  MALCOLM. Be't their comfort
  EVANS. Let us about it. It is admirable pleasures, and fery
    Importunes personal conference with his Grace.
    Art thou aught else but place, degree, and form,  
  Lear. Deny to speak with me? They are sick? they are weary?
  CADE. O monstrous!
    Of the true line and stock of Charles the Great,
  To every hymn that able spirit affords,
  King. Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
                 Alarum. Enter Falstaff solus.
    That hath enrag'd him on to offer strokes,
  MACBETH. The table's full.
  BERTRAM. Nay, by your leave, hold your hands; though I know his
    To speak so true at first? My office is
    Unto a mad-brain rudesby, full of spleen,
    For he is nothing but a mighty lord.
    Up to the rowel-head; and starting so,
                         London. The palace
    Besides, they are our outward consciences
  MOWBRAY. Yea, but our valuation shall be such
  KING JOHN. We will heal up all,
    Proserpina's beauty-ay, that thou bark'st at him.
  GLOUCESTER. Talking of hawking; nothing else, my lord.
    We are fit to bid her welcome.              Exit GENTLEWOMAN
    rascals, there's a knot, a ging, a pack, a conspiracy
    [To OLIVER] You to your land, and love, and great allies
    accordingly, as you value your trust.       LEONATUS.'

  BURGUNDY. As love is, my lord, before it loves.
    thy chance to kill me'-
    shall one day find it.
    That, when she dies, with beauty dies her store.
Enter Harry Hotspur, Worcester, and Douglas.
    This ring was mine; and when I gave it Helen
    To enforce these rights so forcibly withheld.
    Which we have goaded onward.                          Exeunt
    In hateful practice. First, his integrity

    'Tis given with welcome. To feed were best at home;

    Upon our territories, and have already
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk;
    Anointed let me be with deadly venom,

    Come, lords, we trifle time away; I long
    Wherein? and what taxation? My Lord Cardinal,
SCENE II.
  Her. Again!                                    Second trumpet.
    Cannot make boast to have that which he hath,
    Are nobly undergone, and most poor matters
    And yet methinks I see it in thy face,
    The wisest prince that there had reign'd by many
    There is no fellow in the firmament.
    For the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp
    The least of these unspeakable deserts,  
  KING EDWARD. I blame not her: she could say little less;
    Did scowl on gentle Richard; no man cried 'God save him!'
    Though chance of war hath wrought this change of cheer,
  Glou. The trick of that voice I do well remember.
    Or wherefore dost abuse it, if thou hast it?
    If life did ride upon a dial's point,
  If aught possess thee from me, it is dross,
    And till she come, as truly as to heaven
    Make motion through my lips, and my arm'd knees,
    Pay recompense, if you will grant my suit.
    Whiles other men have gates and those gates open'd,  
  MAMILLIUS. Ay, my good lord.
    shall drink down all unkindness.
  OTHELLO. [Reads.] "This fail you not to do, as you will-"
    I'll dive into the burning lake below
    milking-time, when you are going to bed, or kiln-hole, to whistle
    And can say nothing! No, not for a king,
                    Enter Lennox.
    And does blaspheme his breed? Thy royal father
    The throng that follows Caesar at the heels,
    I speak amazedly; and it becomes
  MESSENGER. The nobles in great earnestness are going
    But, since I am a dog, beware my fangs;
  MARCUS. How many thousand times hath these poor lips,
    Put into parts, doth keep in one consent,

    Only to show his pomp as well in France
    But while 'tis spoke each turn away her face.
    And all the pleasures you usurp are mine.
    to me, you shall see the pageant of Ajax.
    a cudgel; and yet my mind gave me his clothes made a false report
  DEMETRIUS. I am full sorry
  SEBASTIAN. Why
    Have thews and limbs like to their ancestors.
  POMPEY. [Aside to MENAS] I think th'art mad. [Rises and walks
    Were to incense the boar to follow us
    With shallow jesters and rash bavin wits,

    So frown'd he once when, in an angry parle,
    'We have seen better days.' Let each take some.
     From Goneril his mistress salutations;  
    Proud of their numbers and secure in soul,
  But though my cates be mean, take them in good part;
  Prince. Come hither, Francis.
  '"O pardon me in that my boast is true!  

    These nails should rend that beauty from my cheeks.
    I have a voice and precedent of peace
  LADY MACBETH. Help me hence, ho!
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  FALSTAFF. Shadow, whose son art thou?
    weather at all, and another storm brewing; I hear it
  CADE. Knock him down there.                    [They kill him]
    Than he, and men- the earth, the heavens, and all:
  LEWIS. My Lord Melun, let this be copied out

    And thus she is deliver'd.
    With such a brabbler.
    Our city's institutions, and the terms
  You spurn me hence, and he will spurn me hither;
    Of stuff'd sufficiency. Now, from the oracle
    Does he rake this together?-Now, my lords,
    O happy torment, when my torturer
    In haste whereof, most heartily I pray
    A very scurvy fellow.  
  Friar. Go with me to the vault.
    When tongues speak sweetly, then they name her name,
    Spare for no fagots, let there be enow.
  Doct. Madam, do you; 'tis fittest.
    In the line-grove which weather-fends your cell;
    I, after him, do after him wish too,
    Sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o' nights:
    Live in thy tongue and heart. Old Escalus,
    A passion most unsuiting such a man-
  ROSS, nobleman of Scotland
    Whose sons lie scattered on the bleeding ground;
      And passion in the gods.'
    Achievements, plots, orders, preventions,
    We may boldly spend upon the hope of what
    Which, with pain purchas'd, doth inherit pain,
  CONSTABLE. By my faith, sir, but it is; never anybody saw it but
  CLAUDIO. But is there any?

    A banish'd traitor.
    me your blessing; I am Launcelot, your boy that was, your son
  Lear. Made you my guardians, my depositaries;

    to Master Peascod, your father. Good Master Peaseblossom, I shall
    And bear the name and port of gentlemen?
    And here am I, and wood within this wood,
     Lurk, lurk.                                         [Exit.]
    Though more to know could not be more to trust,
    If I could pray to move, prayers would move me;
    O none, unless this miracle have might,
    What should I say? he was too good to be
  GLOUCESTER. I cannot blame her; by God's holy Mother,
    The model of our chaste loves, his young daughter-
  FIRST CITIZEN. We have ever your good word.
  KING. Bring him to us.                                   Exit DENNY
    I had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth
    The lazy yawning drone. I this infer,
    Thyself, forsooth, hereafter theirs, so far
  And labouring in moe pleasures to bestow them
    On Athens, ripe for stroke. Thou cold sciatica,
    Which shall be shortly, single I'll resolve you,
  FIRST CITIZEN. We'll bring him to his house with shouts and
                                       [Lies down upon his face]
    As recompense of our dear services
    Are these your letters, knight?
  LADY MACBETH. Is Banquo gone from court?
    Till Harry's back-return again to France.
Alarum. Excursions. Enter the King, the Prince, Lord John of Lancaster,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. To what end did I bid thee hie thee home?
    Can gripe the sacred handle of our sceptre,
    He were created knight for his good service.
    Save this of hers, fram'd by thy villany!
    prawns, whereby thou didst desire to eat some, whereby I told
    O, 'tis a tender place! and I must leave her.              Exeunt
    good sweet lady. Prithee, Virgilia, turn thy solemness out o'
    Upon the next encounter yields him ours.
    ord 'dissolutely': the ort is, according to our meaning,
    to-morrow I'll give him his payment. If ever he go alone again,
     Let it be so. Yet have I left a daughter,
    From any dram of mercy.
     Requires a fitter place.
    What was't to you?
    We may as bootless spend our vain command
                                     [She hales him up and down]
  DUMAIN. Please it you,

    Here comes his Grace in person. My noble uncle!
    Redeeming time when men think least I will.            Exit.
  Earl of Westmoreland.
    To foreign passages; and in the end,
    And module of confounded royalty.
  Ghost. My hour is almost come,
Athens. The palace of THESEUS
    That patter with us in a double sense,

    Thursday let it be- a Thursday, tell her
  Glou. Methinks the ground is even.
    Or aught intend'st to lay unto my charge,
    you have him ever after.
  ULYSSES. O deadly gall, and theme of all our scorns!  
    Especially since Charles must father it.
  KING. But what of this? Are we not all in love?
    Five times redeem'd from death. I do not know  
  Corn. What is your difference? Speak.
        Trumpets sound. Enter ANTONY and EROS, a SOLDIER
    Measures of wheat to Rome; this 'greed upon,
  CLARENCE. Ah, Keeper, Keeper, I have done these things
  Nurse. Yes, madam. Yet I cannot choose but laugh  
    Eight score eight hours? and lovers' absent hours,  
    gold, and silver, is her grandsire upon his death's-bed-Got
    neck. He lays him down upon a bank of flowers. She, seeing
    John Duke of Bourbon, and Lord Bouciqualt;
    Is it not strange and strange?
    exile with him, whose lands and revenues enrich the new Duke;
    And fashion'd thee that instrument of ill,
  If here you hous'd him, here he would have been;
     It toucheth us as France invades our land,
    There on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
  Prince. Then say it once what thou dost know in this.
  BIANCA. Now let me see if I can construe it: 'Hic ibat Simois' I
     Which twain have brought her to.
    The violets, cowslips, and the primroses,
  ESCALUS. There is pretty orders beginning, I can tell you: but it
         The cuckoo then on every tree
    The flux of company.' Anon, a careless herd,
    dozen or fourteen gentlewomen that live honestly by the prick of
  CAPHIS. Of Athens here, my lord.
    That beauty am I bless'd with which you may see.
  DUCHESS. How, my young York? I prithee let me hear it.
    Come then, and take the last warmth of my lips.
    Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
    Necessitied to help, that by this token
  KING. What mean you, madam? By my life, my troth,
    with unwash'd hands too.
    suppers, and sleeping hours, excepted. It is the right
    Melted as the snow, seems to me now
    God pardon them that are the cause thereof!  

    That angels love good men with; even of her
    Who is lost too. Take your patience to you,
  SALISBURY. God's arm strike with us! 'tis a fearful odds.
    read it in what-do-ye-call't here.
    Of you their captives, which ourself have granted;
  DESDEMONA.         What horrible fancy's this?
    To choose for wealth and not for perfect love.
    To alter me. I stay here on my bond.
    And sweetly felt it.
  FALSTAFF.  [Coming forward]  Let me see 't, let me see 't. O,
    Mail'd up in shame, with papers on my back,  
    present profit, but my wish hath a preferment in't.     Exit
    apparel than the man. But art not thou thyself giddy with the
    From famous Edmund Langley, Duke of York,
    Proclaim a pardon to the soldiers fled
  MISTRESS PAGE
    And shall forget the office of our hand  
  SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  How canst thou tell she will deny thy
    And thou with all pleas'd, that hast an achiev'd.
  LORENZO. Madam, they are not yet;  
    Patience awhile, good Cassio. Come, come;
    And meet him, were I tied to run afoot
  Edm. [comes forward] No, my lord.
    The wretched animal heav'd forth such groans
    a soldier to love, so am I in love with a base wench. If drawing
    Springs not from Edward's well-meant honest love,
    they are. To a nunnery, go.                            Exit.
    Nor store of treasons to augment my guilt.
    Than bees that made 'em.

  JOHN. Yes, your renowned name; shall flight abuse it?
    So strongly that they dare not meet each other.
    Be strew'd before your feet!
    a cup of hot wine with not a drop of allaying Tiber in't; said to
    Go; I'll to dinner; hie you to the cell.

DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Marry, he must have a long spoon
    They do consume the thing that feeds their fury.
    As much as I deserve? Why, that's the lady!
    and be hang'd an hour! Will't not off?
    Corn for the rich men only. With these shreds
  CANTERBURY. She hath been then more fear'd than harm'd, my liege;
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I know not at whose suit he is arrested well;
                              ORLEANS
  AGUECHEEK. As any man in Illyria, whatsoever he be, under the
  MAYOR. I'll call for clubs if you will not away.

  Which being violently borne upon,
  SURREY. My Lord Fitzwater, I do remember well
  GONZALO. By'r lakin, I can go no further, sir;
    That in this quarrel have been overthrown
with CHATILLON
    Will put thy shirt on warm? Will these moist trees,
    The squirrel's hoard, and fetch thee new nuts.
    'Tis bargain'd 'twixt us twain, being alone,
    Give him that parting kiss which I had set
ACT III. SCENE 1.
    Preach some philosophy to make me mad,
    And here ye lie baiting of bombards, when
    Bid your friends welcome, show a merry cheer;
    Stealing so poorly.
    My grief was at the height before thou cam'st,
  CAMILLO.  [seeing AUTOLYCUS]  Who have we here?
    When living light should kiss it?
    But when contention and occasion meet,
    benediction to the buyer; by which means I saw whose purse was
  VIRGILIA. Give me excuse, good madam; I will obey you in everything
    I have thee not, and yet I see thee still.
                                     [DUKE FREDERICK goes apart]
    But I shall in a more continuate time
                                                Exeunt, with trumpets
    As benefits to thee; for I will fight
    'Clarence is come-false, fleeting, perjur'd Clarence,
  VALENTINE. This is the gentleman I told your ladyship
    The enemy flying.
    From her propriety. What is the matter, masters?
    thus; therefore perpend, my Princess, and give ear.

  CHARLES. Saint Denis bless this happy stratagem!
    And for his sake wear the detested blot
    We will give up our right in Aquitaine,
    Will piece up in himself.
    Her peerless feature, joined with her birth,
  ARVIRAGUS. With fairest flowers,
  Clown. What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the Scripture?

    Betwixt your eyes and night?
    war betwixt Signior Benedick and her. They never meet but there's
    O Cassius, you are yoked with a lamb,
    knew of their going to bed; and of other motions, as promising
    Whose grossness little characters sum up;
    Hath from the number of his banish'd years
  PAINTER. We are hither come to offer you our service.
    And now he feasts, mousing the flesh of men,
    To help our fielded friends! Come, blow thy blast.  
    When my tongue blabs, then let mine eyes not see.
    She is hard by with twenty thousand men;  
    Both day and night did we keep company.  
  CORIOLANUS. Give me thy hand.
    And Nestor play at push-pin with the boys,
    defend my beauty; and you, to defend all these; and at all these
    As my thoughts make thee, and as my farthest band
    Where the impression of mine eye infixing,
  MENENIUS. Cannot be!
  Beat. Do not you love me?
    O, cut my lace, lest my heart, cracking it,
     Not all the dukes in wat'rish Burgundy
    As hotly and as nobly with thy love
    The door is open, sir; there lies your way;
  SOOTHSAYER. Your fortunes are alike.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. But what follow'd?
    hath, squand'red abroad. But ships are but boards, sailors but  
    condition. Fare ye well.                                Exit
    affection? Why, none, why, none- a slipper and subtle knave, a
  MARCUS. Why, sir, that is as fit as can be to serve for your
  CLARENCE. And there's for twitting me with perjury.
    I, his despiteful Juno, sent him forth
    What dost thou with thy best apparel on?
    Is to make midnight mushrooms, that rejoice
    Macduff is fled to England.
    But, Lepidus, go you to Caesar's house,
    Than hands or tongue, her spotless chastity,
    Of murder's arms; this is the bloodiest shame,
    Which now suits with it. Whiles I threat, he lives;
                                          Exeunt Lady and Nurse.  
  POET. I will unbolt to you.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Swart, like my shoe; but her face

  Poins. Ay, four, in buckram suits.  
             This is he, my master said,
    more truth in thee than in a drawn fox; and for woman-hood, Maid
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I pray you, sir, receive the money now,
  SIMPCOX. Alas, good master, my wife desir'd some damsons
LUCIANA. Fie, how impatience loureth in your face!
  COUNTESS. He blushes, and 'tis it.
    Affairs of Antony; there did dissuade
    The time shall not be many hours of age
  Ros. What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
    If I now had him brought into my power.
  TIMON. Had I a steward
  CORIOLANUS. Why, this was known before.
    Save breed to brave him, when he takes thee hence.
  CRESSIDA. Alas, poor chin! Many a wart is richer.
  Be it for nothing but to spite my wife-
    Among fresh female buds shall you this night
             Re-enter Macduff, with Macbeth's head.
  TIMON. When there is nothing living but thee, thou shalt be
    Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
    That to my foes this body must be prey,
  Cap. What, man? 'Tis not so much, 'tis not so much!
    Discipled of the bravest. He lasted long;
  BANQUO. At your kind'st leisure.
  AARON. Ay, some mad message from his mad grandfather.
    Freshly on me. 'Tis surely for a name.
  KING. Come, sir, it wants a twelvemonth an' a day,  

    rest, that is the rendezvous of it.
    Is that vile name to perish on my sword!
    Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?

  GEORGE. He shall have the skins of our enemies to make dog's
      and niece to King John
    great cause of the night is lack of the sun; that he that hath
  A PEDANT
    The Senate's courtesy? Let deeds express
    You'll not endure him? God shall mend my soul!

  IMOGEN. What hour is it?
    Whiles others play the idiots in her eyes!
    Your chang'd complexions are to me a mirror
         Re-enter ARIEL, driving in CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and
  KATHERINA. Love me or love me not, I like the cap;

    Which, in his nonage, council under him,
    daughter and mine, my god-daughter Ellen?
                                      Exeunt LUCENTIO and BIANCA
    His time doth take.
    The ne'er-touch'd vestal. Try thy cunning, Thyreus;
    strengthened.
  POSTHUMUS. A Roman,
    And in my company my brother Gloucester,
    Farewell;
          He that has and a little tiny wit-
    endured; and in the reproof of this lies the jest.
    But let me hear the letter of your friend.

  HELENA. Monsieur Parolles, you were born under a charitable star.
    More sweet than our blest fields. His royal bird
    But if I bow, they'll say it was for fear.
    Finding it so inclined.
    Come, thou tortoise! when?
  COSTARD. I will not fight with a pole, like a Northern man; I'll
    Was re-united to the Crown of France.
    Hence, villain! never more come in my sight.
  Whom thine eyes woo as mine importune thee,

    Was innocence for innocence; we knew not
    So happy is your brother.  
  A doubtful warrant of immediate death;
    But doubt discovery there. Will you grant with me
  KING. Now, lords, if God doth give successful end
    Are like invulnerable. If you could hurt,
    Might be a copy to these younger times;
    With silken, sly, insinuating Jacks?
    Stand gracious to the rites that we intend!

Falstaff.
    It must not bear my daughter.
    Which speed, we hope, the better for our words.
  VOLUMNIA. Anger's my meat; I sup upon myself,
Dramatis Personae

  ANTONIO. Fie, fie!
    Call we to mind-and mark but this for proof:
    And true obedience, of this madness cur'd,
    Whose dangerous eyes may well be charm'd asleep
    With Cain go wander thorough shades of night,

    of your new fortunes with this more stubborn and boisterous
  Laer. I know him well. He is the broach indeed
  EMILIA. A very handsome man.
    The Prince's espials have informed me
  LAUNCE. It's no matter for that, so she sleep not in her talk.
  PRINCE JOHN. Well, peace be with him that hath made us heavy!
    sufferance. Bid him therefore consider of his ransom, which must

  ALL. Resolv'd, resolv'd.
  PORTIA. He hath refus'd it in the open court;
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  AJAX. If it be so, yet bragless let it be;
          My part of death no one so true
    That I shall hardly spare a pound of flesh
    before, these weird sisters saluted me and referred me to the
    thee from thy master thou talk'st of; serve him still.
  PAROLLES. Pray you, sir, deliver me this paper.
    O, would I were to die with Salisbury!
  ANTONIO. Then tell me,
    Against an oracle.
                                                 [March within.]
    In feeding them with those my former fortunes

    Sacred and sweet was all I saw in her.
  Ham. Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
    enforce them against him. We shall find this friar a notable
    It were lost sorrow to wail one that's lost.
  FIRST STRANGER. We know him for no less, though we are but
    voices that I may be consul, I have here the customary gown.

    But, if you were the devil, you are fair.
    To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.
    So, if the issue of the elder son
    In that same place thou hast appointed me,
    If you should smile, he grows impatient.
  ARMADO. I will have that subject newly writ o'er, that I may
                 Item, Sack two gallons . . . . . . . . v s. viii d.
    To honour me as thy king and sovereign,
    Go with me to a notary, seal me there
    Come, let's fall to; and, gentle girl, eat this:
    And my imaginations are as foul
    Or else reproach be Talbot's greatest fame!
             Enter ORLANDO with his sword drawn
    in love, cannot see to put on your hose.
    the jealous fool to her husband! I suspect without cause,
  ARCHBISHOP. 'Tis well done.
    All several sins, all us'd in each degree,
  King. To thine own peace. If he be now return'd
  ANTONY. Fear him not, Caesar; he's not dangerous;
             Whilst the heavy ploughman snores,
    As I can of those mysteries which heaven
    I would dissemble with my nature where
  Cap. Make haste, make haste. [Exit Fellow.] Sirrah, fetch drier
    If not, the Fates with traitors do contrive.           Exit.
    brewage.  [Exit BARDOLPH]  How now!
Lords Attendant.
  VALENTINE. Then I am paid;
    For I must talk of murders, rapes, and massacres,
    and odd shilling; fifteen hundred shorn, what comes the wool to?
    Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind;
                                           Ghost beckons Hamlet.
    And teach me how to curse mine enemies!
    And make his dead trunk pillow to our lust.
    In seeking tales and informations
    There let them bide until we have devis'd
  Servant. Seafaring men, sir. They say they have letters for you.
    Like boys unto a muss, kings would start forth
                            Exeunt [Lear, Kent, and Attendants].
  FLAVIUS. An honest poor servant of yours.  
                            [The PROVOST lays bands on the DUKE]
    And, like a rat without a tail,
    late now.
  CASSIO. 'Fore God, they have given me a rouse already.
    To the sea-monster. I stand for sacrifice;
     If more, the more th' hast wrong'd me.
    Behoves me keep at utterance. I am perfect
    For you must know we have with special soul  
                                          [A dead march sounded]
  LUCIUS' SERVANT. Five thousand crowns, my lord.
ACT III. SCENE I.
    Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
    And you, my noble and well-warranted cousin,
  1. Mus. What a pestilent knave is this same?
    Therefore no kiss.
  Then gentle cheater urge not my amiss,
  CHIRON. O, 'tis a verse in Horace, I know it well;
     Will I give place or notice.
  ROSALIND. I am. What must we understand by this?
  JULIA. Not like a woman, for I would prevent
 RIVERS. Why with some little train, my Lord of  

    tyranny of her sorrows takes all livelihood from her cheek. No
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Mark'd with a blot, damn'd in the book of heaven.
    Your dangerous lenity. If you are learn'd,
    When I was young, as yet I am not old,
    Why art thou old, and want'st experience?
    hate him manifests the true knowledge he has in their

    I here renounce him and return to Henry.
    What should I say to you? Should I not say

    From high to low throughout, that whoso please  
     were there. To say 'ay' and 'no' to everything I said! 'Ay' and
    Affection! thy intention stabs the centre.
  Prince. O my sweet beef, I must still be good angel to thee.
    And the conclusion is, she shall be thine.
  And therefore from my face she turns my foes,
  PORTIA. Why, this bond is forfeit;
                     74
  NORFOLK. Marry, is't.
    Bareheaded, lower than his proud steed's neck,
    tricks, which are their own right by the law of nature.
  DONALBAIN. To Ireland, I; our separated fortune
  Pedro. I would she had bestowed this dotage on me. I would have

  And worse essays proved thee my best of love.

  NESTOR. [Aside] He's not yet through warm. Force him with praises;
    hither, spirit;
  BOLINGBROKE. First-heaven be the record to my speech!
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  CITIZENS. The gods preserve you both!
    Renown'd in Padua for her scolding tongue.
    Under the canopies of costly state,

  CONSTABLE. Ev'n as your horse bears your praises, who would trot as
    That spaniel'd me at heels, to whom I gave
  HELENA. You go so much backward when you fight.
  MACBETH. Thou losest labor.
    Is severally in all. Let's quit this ground,
    To me, and to the state of my great grief,
    Or by his foe surpris'd at unawares;
    one that hath abundance of charge too, God knows what. They are

    reverent than one tipp'd with horn.
            He puts the handkerchief from him, and she drops it.
    count, Count Comfect, a sweet gallant surely! O that I were a man
    Of bell and burial.
    Casting their savageness aside, have done
    would half have corrupted a votarist. You have told me she hath
    In the Rialto you have rated me
  HASTINGS. On what occasion, God He knows, not I,
    Desire them all to my pavilion.
  DUKE. What dost thou know?
  To go in person with me to my house.
    For the best hope I have. O, do not wish one more!
    Pray God the plants thou graft'st may never grow!
    Obedience; for so work the honey bees,  
    Remember, boys, I pour'd forth tears in vain
    Gave him defiance. But which of you was by-
    Do't in your parents' eyes. Bankrupts, hold fast;
    the only love-gods. Go in with me, and I will tell you my drift.
    him; such I will have whom I am sure he knows not from the enemy.

  WART. Here, sir.
    upon us!
    As who would say in Rome no justice were.
THE END
  SILENCE.  [Singing]  And Robin Hood, Scarlet, and John.

                     Enter BUSHY
  Because he needs no praise, wilt thou be dumb?
  QUEEN. What are you made of? You'll nor fight nor fly.

  SIR TOBY. Let's to bed, knight. Thou hadst need send for more
    Outran my purpose; and I return'd the rather
  SECOND LORD. Joy had the like conception in our eyes,
    I see the trick on't: here was a consent,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    That well by heart hath conn'd his embassage.
  OLIVIA. Who has done this, Sir Andrew?
  BARDOLPH. And being fap, sir, was, as they say, cashier'd;
    Who had no doubt some noble creature in her,
  AGUECHEEK. 'Twere as good a deed as to drink when a man's ahungry,
    Towards her deserved children is enroll'd

  ANGUS. Near Birnam Wood
  WESTMORELAND. I pledge your Grace; and if you knew what pains

    And say 'God quit you!' be familiar with
  In clamours of all size, both high and low.
  SIR TOBY. What shall we do else? Were we not born under Taurus?
  OTHELLO.                           Yes, presently:

    And toward the education of your daughters
    Never to speak of this that you have heard:
    As humorous as winter, and as sudden  
  CYMBELINE. Leave not the worthy Lucius, good my lords,
  Rom. Here's goodly gear!
    More than that being which was like to be?
    Now help, ye charming spells and periapts;
  STEPHANO. How didst thou scape? How cam'st thou hither?
    thou wilt not, why then be enemies with me too. Prithee put up.
    Lest, to thy peril, thou aby it dear.
    This union shall do more than battery can
  CORIOLANUS. You bless me, gods!
    Hois'd sail, and made his course again for Britaine.
    His face I know not.
    nails, d'arma, de bilbow.
by William Shakespeare

  PANDARUS. Faith, to say truth, brown and not brown.
    And men are flesh and blood, and apprehensive;
  KING. More measure of this measure; be not nice.

    Who, on my soul, hath wilfully betray'd
    I am a gentleman of Verona, sir,
    I'd give thee leave to hang it. Get thee gone.
    I prithee go and get me some repast;
  Leon. I pray thee peace. I will be flesh and blood;
ACT IV. SCENE I.
    Against our rampir'd gates and they shall ope,  

  QUEEN KATHARINE. Thank your Majesty.
  SERVANT. I hope I shall know your honour better.
    afterwards.
  SECOND SERVANT. As we do turn our backs
    Thou shouldst print more, not let that copy die.
  FALSTAFF. Boy, tell him I am deaf.
    Henry is able to enrich his queen,
                                How now, Roderigo!  
    Or, shedding, breed a nursery of like evil
    Betid to any creature in the vessel  
  Ham. Why, e'en so! and now my Lady Worm's, chapless, and knock'd
    my horse, grey Capilet.
    If something thou wouldst swear to be believ'd,
    execution. If you think it meet, compound with him by the year,
    Become your time of day- and yours, and yours,
  BRUTUS. Judge me, you gods! Wrong I mine enemies?
    During the time Edward the Third did reign.
    There, gentle Hermia, may I marry thee;
  HERMIA. The more I hate, the more he follows me.
    You that love me and Warwick, follow me.
    Was grown into a hoop? Hast thou forgot her?
    Attendants
Enter CAPTAINS, English and Welsh, GOWER and FLUELLEN
    Hume's knavery will be the Duchess' wreck,
    Upon the maiden virtue of the crown.
    Their fiery torcher his diurnal ring,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    pranks too; who, I may say, is no honest man, neither to his
    And stands colossus-wise, waving his beam,
  EXECUTIONER. I am best pleas'd to be from such a deed.
  SEBASTIAN. No; he doth but mistake the truth totally.
  AUMERLE. Good mother, be content; it is no more
  Ham. It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Berowne did swear himself out of all suit.
    I had rather be a kitten and cry mew
    Dying like men, though buried in your dunghills,
    And therefore let me be thus bold with you
  TIMON. Let all my land be sold.
    Methinks they should invite them without knives:
  Hor. I saw him once. He was a goodly king.  
  CAESAR. Set on, and leave no ceremony out.           Flourish.  
    Bear thine eyes straight, though thy proud heart go wide.
  IAGO. What say'st thou, noble heart?
     unaccommodated man is no more but such a poor, bare, forked
    They are but Lewis and Warwick: I am Edward,
    At my poor house look to behold this night

    Will e'en but kiss Octavia, and we'll follow.
    Although you break it when your pleasure serves.
  ANNE. No, in truth.
  LEONTES. On your allegiance,
    him, Kate.
    If I were mad I should forget my son,
    Great hurt and mischief; thereto witness may
    If death be so apparent, then both fly.
  MOWBRAY. And I, to keep all this.
    Sir, she can turn and turn, and yet go on,
    Lest they desire upon this push to trouble
    company, Chitopher, Vaumond, Bentii, two hundred fifty each; so
    That ever liv'd.
    Good ancient, you are welcome. [To Emilia.] Welcome, mistress.
    And 'Honi soit qui mal y pense' write  
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. At his return
    Why, this hath not a finger's dignity:
    Than for to think that I would sink it here.
    She hath been a suitor to me for her brother,
    If you will presently take horse with him
    Ah, good my liege, I pray thee pardon me.
    Heaven guide thy pen to print thy sorrows plain,

    I have sat too long.                                [Rising]
    You have been nobly borne.- From me awhile.        Exit EROS
    Know what it is to meet Achilles angry.
    With his weak function. How am I then a villain
    Go know of Cassio where he supp'd tonight.
     Conceive, and fare thee well.
    Had we no other quarrel else to Rome but that
  Dogberry, a Constable.
    For whom my heart drops blood and my false spirits
    Were crack'd of kitchen trulls, or his description

  Ham. Why, look you there! Look how it steals away!  
  Prince. Sirs, you four shall front them in the narrow lane; Ned
    but a scurvy fellow.'
  Glou. What, is he dead?

    Th' unstained sword that you have us'd to bear;
  CASSIO. This did I fear, but thought he had no weapon;
  AGAMEMNON. His blows are well dispos'd. There, Ajax!
    Of whom he had this ring.
    Against my life; the minute of their plot
  PLANTAGENET. My father was attached, not attainted;
  Show me your image in some antique book,
      A Captain under Edmund's command.
    And hit the woundless air.- O, come away!
    should be so bold to press to heaven in my young days. Why, I am
      LOVELL, SIR NICHOLAS VAUX, SIR WILLIAM SANDYS,
    Give him the cup.
    She'll find a white that shall her blackness fit.
    I stay too long. But here my father comes.
  PEDANT. What's he that knocks as he would beat down the gate?

    But earthlier happy is the rose distill'd
    Take to you, as your predecessors have,
    Shall darken him for ever.

  ERPINGHAM. Not so, my liege; this lodging likes me better,
    I'll stay no longer question.
    Who is thy grandfather; he made those clothes,
    My father's goods are all distrain'd and sold;
  Mer. The fee simple? O simple!
    But what serve for thunder? Precious villain!
     When time shall serve, let but the herald cry,
    Already at a point, was setting forth.
    And all the peers', for surety of our leagues.
   And the mute wonder lurketh in men's ears
  FALSTAFF. Mistress Ford, your sorrow hath eaten up my
  FALSTAFF. I do begin to perceive that I am made an ass.
  DEMETRIUS. No remedy, my lord, when walls are so wilful to hear
    And let us do it with no show of fear-

  EXETER. Remember, lords, your oaths to Henry sworn,
  GLOUCESTER. Sprawl'st thou? Take that, to end thy agony.
  TIMON. Slave!
    To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  Edm. Fear me not.
    Sleep for a week; for the next night, I warrant,
    A rage whose heat hath this condition
  OLIVIA. Did he write this?
  Lear. What's that?
  VALENTINE, gentleman attending on the Duke
     And turn our impress'd lances in our eyes
  Glou. Ay, my good lord.
    bear loose, are you not?
    It is asham'd to bear me. Friends, come hither.
    Nor here provincial. My business in this state
    now.
    Think'st thou it honourable for a noble man
    To join with witches and the help of hell!
    Unto your sickness.
    Th' anointed sovereign of sighs and groans,

    The ocean, overpeering of his list,
    Thy other banish'd son with this dear sight
    That does appear as he were flay'd? O gods!
    Forbids to dwell upon; yet remember this:
    Be by my friends in Spain advis'd, whose counsel
    I trust I shall. My women, come; you have leave.
  CORIN. Besides, our hands are hard.

    It would amaze the proudest of you all.
    guts, that roasted Manningtree ox with the pudding in his belly,
    For Orpheus' lute was strung with poets' sinews,
    Nor faint in the pursuit.
    Murder in heaven! How! 'Tis gone. Pisanio,

      They pass directly before the CARDINAL,
  KING EDWARD. Ha! durst the traitor breathe out so proud words?
  John. Sure my brother is amorous on Hero and hath withdrawn her
    Antony call. I see him rouse himself

  CHARMIAN. Not he; the Queen.
  SERVANT. Faith, sir, superficially.
    Folded the writ up in the form of th' other,
    Now if the help of Norfolk and myself,
    For many years thought dead, are now reviv'd,
    To tell me how he takes it. Fare you well.
    I hope you will not mock me with a husband.
    No, no, I am as ugly as a bear,
  From hence your memory death cannot take,
    That if you now beheld them your affections
    And all cry, Hector! Hector's dead! O Hector!
    No longer on Saint Denis will we cry,
  STEPHANO. Give me thy hand; I am sorry I beat thee; but
    If you will have Revenge from hell, you shall.
    And so farewell until I meet thee next.                 Exit
  BASSANIO. By heaven, it is the same I gave the doctor!
         O, stay and hear; your true love's coming,
      Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and MARDIAN
  GALLUS. You see how easily she may be surpris'd.
    league
    Let gentleness my strong enforcement be;
    To Henry Bolingbroke.
    Followers of Falstaff
    Worthy enough a herdsman- yea, him too
  CASCA. Marry, before he fell down, when he perceived the common
  GLOUCESTER. Why, Suffolk, England knows thine insolence.
                      France. Before Rouen
    For but a month ago I went from hence,
  OTHELLO.                  Would? Nay, I will.
    in the world I fill up a place, which may be better supplied when
    But God sort all! You are welcome home, my lord.  
    And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?
  KING. Madam, your father here doth intimate
  LADY MACBETH. My worthy lord,
    If it be so, then both depart to him:
  TITUS. Hear me, grave fathers; noble Tribunes, stay!
    O, beat away the busy meddling fiend
  MARSHAL. The appellant in all duty greets your Highness,
    the bush. Shall it be so?
       servants to Timon's creditors
    be'st valiant- as they say base men being in love have then a
    came you between us? I was hurt under your arm.
    Were in his pride or sharpness; if they were,
  DESDEMONA.                               No, unpin me here.
  WARWICK. Suppose, my lords, he did it unconstrain'd,
    Of the rang'd empire fall! Here is my space.
  In true plain words, by thy true-telling friend.
         To their lord's murther. Roasted in wrath and fire,
    you sing?
    Pointing on him.
    Hark, wretches! how I mean to martyr you.
    To what may be digested in a play.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  AARON. Titus Andronicus, my lord the Emperor
    A passion hateful to my purposes;
  OLIVIA. Have you any commission from your lord to negotiate with my
     I and my hundred knights.
    Look how we can, or sad or merrily,
                   Enter a second MESSENGER
  Verges, a Headborough.
    That vow a long and weary pilgrimage.
  Gon. This is mere practice, Gloucester.
    Enter the Maskers, Enter, [with Servants,] Capulet, his Wife,
    Should once set footing in your generous bosoms?
    And all my pains is sorted to no proof.
    That yet we sleep, we dream. Do not you think
    Is come from Caesar; therefore hear it, Antony.  
  
  SPEED. She is not within hearing, sir.
  Beat. No, not till a hot January.
  MARCUS. Who is this?- my niece, that flies away so fast?  
ADRIANA. Justice, most sacred Duke, against the Abbess!
    And now like Nilus it disdaineth bounds.
  LUCENTIO. Were it not that my fellow schoolmaster
  APEMANTUS. If thou didst put this sour-cold habit on
    And take our friendly senators by th' hands,
  GLOUCESTER. Ambitious churchman, leave to afflict my heart.
    Will you take eggs for money?
    That the poor soldier that so richly fought,
  Be it lawful I love thee as thou lov'st those,
    Will I withal endow a child of thine;
 Exit
    Condemning some to death and some to exile;
    One rubb'd his elbow, thus, and fleer'd, and swore  
    about thy soul, that thou soldest him on Good Friday last for a
    His pow'rful mandate to you: 'Do this or this;


    And seize upon the fortunes of the Moor,
    Seal up your lips and give no words but mum:
  BRUTUS. Lucilius, do you the like, and let no man
    honest.
  YORK. My lord, most humbly on my knee I beg
  OXFORD. Every man's conscience is a thousand men,
    You do prepare to ride unto Saint Albans,
                                                    Exeunt omnes
  PAGE. Ephesians, my lord, of the old church.
Enter BAPTISTA, GREMIO, TRANIO as LUCENTIO, KATHERINA, BIANCA,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. 'A speaks not like a man of God his making.
    Use me but as your spaniel, spurn me, strike me,
    I shall indue you with. Meantime but ask

    But they will pluck away his natural cause
     enter MOWBRAY, Duke of Nor folk, in arms, defendant, and
Leonato's orchard.
    Force should be right; or, rather, right and wrong-
    We have made inquiry of you, and we hear
    rusty sword ta'en out of the town armoury, with a broken hilt,
    Well, a horn for my money, when all's done.
  CORNELIUS. First, she confess'd she never lov'd you; only
    here is that gold I have. I'll make it as much more, and leave
  POMPEY. No; but there's a woman with maid by him. You have not
    O loyal father of a treacherous son!
  Dog. Nay, that were a punishment too good for them if they should
    Each man apart, all single and alone,

    Wife, love Lord Hastings, let him kiss your hand;

  IAGO. You see this fellow that is gone before;
    Our bruised arms hung up for monuments;
    speak sooner than drink, and drink sooner than pray; and yet,

    And sooner dance upon a bloody pole
    For tender princes, use my babies well.
 Exit
  CLEOPATRA. I am paid for't now. Lead me from hence,
    Wherein you see me smear'd; if any fear
    The unguarded Duncan? What not put upon
    And part the numbers.

    Because till now we never saw your face.
  IMOGEN. I did not take my leave of him, but had
    Which sleeps, and never palates more the dug,
  MRS. FORD. How might we disguise him?
  PAROLLES. What's the matter, sweetheart?
    BASTARD. They found him dead, and cast into the streets,
    else. I have drunk medicines. Poins! Hal! A plague upon you both!
  FLUELLEN. Though he be as good a gentleman as the Devil is, as
  SURVEYOR. He was brought to this
    A lovely boy, stolen from an Indian king.
    Mine honour, it. Repent that e'er thy tongue
  ANTONY. Where died she?
    Upon a homely object Love can wink.              Exit THURIO
    [To Lodovico and Gratiano.] What are you there?
    Call, good Mercutio.
  VOLUMNIA. You are too absolute;
    But for supporting robbers, shall we now
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    composition that your valour and fear makes in you is a virtue of
    To prove myself a loyal gentleman
    back to Rome and prepare for your execution. You are condemn'd;
    Guiltier than him they try. What's open made to justice,
  PROTEUS. Valentine?
    And will, no doubt, tempt him to anything.
    Beg often our own harms, which the wise pow'rs
  ORLANDO. It is my arm.
           Thus die I, thus, thus, thus.
    And at that time bequeath you my diseases.                   Exit
  HELEN. Falling in, after falling out, may make them three.

  If best were as it was, or best without.
  ARTHUR. No, in good sooth; the fire is dead with grief,
  The dear respose for limbs with travel tired,
    then, I ask but this: can he that speaks with the tongue of an
                   Flourish. Exeunt KING, QUEEN, BUSHY, AUMERLE,
  Jul. Well, thou hast comforted me marvellous much.
    By what safe means the crown may be recover'd.

    come when you are next prepared for.                        Exit.
  FIRST CITIZEN. Give you good morrow, sir.
  At your important letters-this ill day
    need we have any friends if we should ne'er have need of 'em?
    The napless vesture of humility;
    This being granted in course- and now follows all: we shall
    And bring thy news so late?
    But follow me, and Edward shall be ours.
    conference with this harpy. You have no employment for me?
    Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
    Requires nor child nor woman's face to see.
  Nurse. Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.
  O let my looks be then the eloquence,
    That caus'd a lesser villain than myself,
    But that the Scot on his unfurnish'd kingdom
SCENE 3.
  THIRD LORD. 'Tis so, be sure of it.
    And thou must cure me. Till I know 'tis done,
    Were you a woman, as the rest goes even,
  THESEUS. 'The battle with the Centaurs, to be sung
          Sing willow, willow, willow.
    I chiefly lov'd. 'Twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it
    As breath into the wind. Would they had stay'd!
  KING HENRY. The Lord Protector lost it, and not I:
    Thy latest words. In the reproof of chance
  VALENTINE. Leave off discourse of disability;
  CARDINAL. Duke Humphrey has done a miracle to-day.
    Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
    Shall we desire to raze the sanctuary,
  So slides he down upon his grained bat,
    A chilling sweat o'er-runs my trembling joints;
    When the false Troyan under sail was seen,
  PISANIO. Ay, my noble lord.
  ANTONIO. No more than I am well acquitted of.

    Step forth mine advocate; at your request
    The action of my life is like it, which
  ROSS. Well, I will thither.
  KATHARINE. How needless was it then to ask the question!
    Unless I prove false traitor to myself.
    I love him not, nor hate him not; and yet
    And on it have bestowed more contrite tears
  WARWICK. How say'st thou, Charles? Shall our condition  
    In leads or oils? What old or newer torture
    This day should Clarence closely be mew'd up-
    invisible.
SCENE II.
    borne before us instead of maces will we ride through the
    The water which they beat to follow faster,
    And make me die the thrall of Margaret's curse,
    Go you and enter Harfleur; there remain,
    Put on my brows this wreath of victory,
    Have left me issueless; and your father's blest,
    Of things that merchants sold. Therefore be cheer'd;
    mistook him and sent to me, I should ne'er have denied his
  Edm. I know no news, my lord.
    there she lost a noble and renowned brother, in his love toward
    Down, royal state. All you sage counsellors, hence.  

    A most unspotted lily shall she pass
                                                          Exeunt
    What louring star now envies thy estate
    Loaden with honour. Say my request's unjust,

    Find him, my lord of Warwick; chide him hither.
  QUEEN MARGARET. A murd'rous villain, and so still thou art.
    When thousands weep more than did laugh at it.
    Thou, beastly feeder, art so full of him
    It shall be with such strict and severe covenants
  OTHELLO. Who is't you mean?
  KING PHILIP. It shall be so; and at the other hill  

    To show his grief. Let her be round with him;
    Give him much wrong'd.
    My brother Montague shall post to London.
    How shall we then behold their natural tears?
  LUCENTIO. Whate'er I read to her, I'll plead for you
    Duke, I say to thee again, would eat mutton on Fridays. He's not
    Yet needfull too; for youth no less becomes
  1. Mus. Why 'Heart's ease'',
  BASTARD. How I have sped among the clergymen
Athens. QUINCE'S house
    For my affection.
Edmund stands back.]
         By the time I linger here.
    thefts were too open; his filching was like an unskilful
    And let not hemp his windpipe suffocate.
  ANTONY. Yet hear me, countrymen; yet hear me speak.
    So long a breeding as his white beard came to,
    And wish'd in silence that it were not his.
    Y'are servant to the Count Orsino, youth.  
  MARIA. I will drop in his way some obscure epistles of love;

    ladyship behold and hear our exorcisms?
    likings.
    Cry, Troyans, cry, A Helen and a woe!  
  BRUTUS. No more, I pray you.
  BASTARD. My brother Robert, old Sir Robert's son?
    For tinctures, stains, relics, and cognizance.
THE END
  FATHER. How will my wife for slaughter of my son
    I shall attend your leisure; but make haste;
    His treasons will sit blushing in his face,
                                                         Exeunt.
    Doth not she think me an old murtherer,
     hanged.
  FIRST SERVANT. But more of thy news!
  DIANA. He does me wrong, my lord; if I were so
                                       [Gathering up the pieces]
    And in the essential vesture of creation
    Well said, my hearts!- You are a princox- go!

    That, being a stranger in this city here,

  CHARLES. Stay, stay thy hands; thou art an Amazon,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    When I did speak of some distressful stroke
    Quoniam he seemeth in minority,
    Mine ears against your suits are stronger than
    I'll to the Duke of Suffolk presently.                  Exit
  OTHELLO. Did he confess it?
    love me to madness, I shall never requite him.
    To share with me in glory any more.
  HOLOFERNES. Sir Nathaniel, haud credo.
  Ben. I do but keep the peace. Put up thy sword,
  FIRST SENATOR. Here come our brothers.
  Kent. Thou whoreson zed! thou unnecessary letter! My lord, if
    up my leg and make water against a gentlewoman's farthingale?
     grief?
  Leon. I would have sworn it had, my lord--especially against
    In those unfledg'd days was my wife a girl;
  Now is the time that face should form another,
    A better wife, let him in nought be trusted
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
    queen.
  ARMADO. O well-knit Samson! strong-jointed Samson! I do excel thee
    The sinew and the forehand of our host,
    My love as it begins shall so persever.
    conscience, which is indeed, sir, a mender of bad soles.
    A poor unmanly melancholy sprung
  Why is my verse so barren of new pride?

    And to what end, is this? Nay, ladies, fear not:
    From heartiness, from bounty, fertile bosom,
    Promis'd to Harry and his followers.
    thou not?
    steward? Dost thou think, because thou art virtuous, there shall
    Was ever conduct of. Some oracle

  Reg. Hang him instantly.
             With speedy help doth lend redress.'         [Exit.
    Rides on the posting winds and doth belie
    Let me not shame respect; but give me leave
  O call not me to justify the wrong,

    But to establish here a peace indeed,
    I that did never weep now melt with woe
    Ne'er seen but wond'red at; and so my state,

    That an invisible instinct should frame them
    Sans check, to good and bad. But when the planets
    atone my countryman and you; it had been pity you should have
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
      changes, the first two hold a spare garland over her
             Enter CAESAR, with his army, marching
    Quite from the main opinion he held once
     canst tell why one's nose stands i' th' middle on's face?  
    the length of seven year.
    And, being troubled with a raging tooth,

    You all did love him once, not without cause;
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    tell him so.
    Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire, sick health!

    We write in water. May it please your Highness

  MAMILLIUS. Nay, that's a mock. I have seen a lady's nose
  Claud. O mischief strangely thwarting!
    Our friends at least.
    For King of England shalt thou be proclaim'd
    What though he love your Hermia? Lord, what though?
    I'll make him find him. Do this suddenly;
  ALL. Revenge! About! Seek! Burn! Fire! Kill!
  Bene. We'll be friends first.
    as foot can fall, he thinks himself too soon there.
    And by those claim their greatness, not by blood.
  PROTEUS. Yet writers say, as in the sweetest bud
    have made you four tall fellows skip like rats.
  OLIVIA. Whither, my lord? Cesario, husband, stay.
    Our sovereign process, which imports at full,
    Her mother is the lady of the house.
    He made a blushing cital of himself,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    For my heart speaks they are welcome.

  CAIUS, I come to fetch you home. I am sworn of the peace;
  TYRREL, I mean those bastards in the Tower.
    Say, who art thou that lately didst descend
  BIONDELLO. He that has the two fair daughters; is't he you mean?
    And they did make no noise- in such a night,
  Mer. Come between us, good Benvolio! My wits faint.
Without the walls of Athens
    As prouder livers do.
  SECOND LORD. You shall hear one anon.          [Alarum within]
    That rail'd against our person. We consider
    I am his first born son that was the last

    To lay on me a cruelty by taking
  FIRST SERVANT. A strange one as ever I look'd on. I cannot get him

    Or live in peace abandon'd and despis'd!
    God save the King! Will no man say amen?

    To whom he sung, in rude harsh-sounding rhymes,
    And I, seeing this, came thence for very shame;
    smallest.
    something drown my manly spirit; adieu!
    From whence himself does fly? He loves us not;
  IACHIMO. Change you, madam?
ACT II. Scene I.
    Would make a volume of enticing lines,
    own, that I may pass with a reproof the easier, sith you
    Hector, in view of Troyans and of Greeks,
    And do submit me to your Highness' mercy.
    To join with Mortimer, ha?
    when of ourselves we publish them.
  EDWARD. Dazzle mine eyes, or do I see three suns?
                   [He stabs SATURNINUS. A great tumult. LUCIUS,
  He broke from those that had the guard of him,
    O, were the sum of these that I should pay  
    And tell my lord and lady what hath happ'd!
    Imp out our drooping country's broken wing,
    Call him a slanderous coward and a villain;
SCENE VIII.
    And day by day I'll do this heavy task,
    More needs she the divine than the physician.
    And that young Harry Percy's spur was cold.  
  SEBASTIAN. I'll be your purse-bearer, and leave you for
  Oph. Still better, and worse.
    How you can frown, than spend a fawn upon 'em
    resolution with hopes that are fallible; to-morrow you must die;
    Urge the necessity and state of times,
  CASSIUS. Did Cicero say anything?
    otherwise.  
    Steal forth thy father's house to-morrow night;
    Into his study of imagination,
    Only, good master, while we do admire
                                     One calls within, 'Juliet.'
    If not with vantage, as Demetrius';
  And tongues to be, your being shall rehearse,
    From tawny Spain lost in the world's debate.
    For thou art pleasant, gamesome, passing courteous,
  Samp. Yes, better, sir.
    He says he does, being then most flattered.
    of earth; fire enough for a flint, pearl enough for a swine; 'tis

    Richard, I will create thee Duke of Gloucester;

    She says I am not fair, that I lack manners;  
                                                  Alarum. Exeunt

    truie lavee au bourbier.' Thou mak'st use of anything.
           [OBERON leading, the FAIRIES sing and dance]

  DUKE. Still so cruel?
    The itch of his affection should not then
    thrift. Briefly, I do mean to make love to Ford's wife; I
  FORD. And sped you, sir?
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
    He fell sick suddenly, and grew so ill
    died in his own person, videlicet, in a love-cause. Troilus had
    And, by my troth, you have cause. You'll sup with me?
  VALENTINE. Is Silvia dead?
     once, and the wind to make me chatter; when the thunder would  
    all my money?
  DAUPHIN. Via! Les eaux et la terre-
  Ham. O God!
  PISTOL. God save you, Sir John!
  POINS. By this light, I am well spoke on; I can hear it with mine
                                                       Hautboys.
  IACHIMO. Your daughter's chastity- there it begins.
  DUMAIN. The worthy knight of Troy.
    pardoned.

  FIRST SOLDIER. 'Demand of him of what strength they are a-foot.'
    Believe me, lords, my tender years can tell

  SOMERSET. Nor I, but stoop with patience to my fortune.
    And lasting fealty to the new-made king.

  KING. That she vouchsafe me audience for one word.
  NESTOR. Our noble general, do not do so.
    And bound I am to Padua, there to visit
  PORTIA. By my troth, Nerissa, my little body is aweary of this
Another part of the plain
    Others like soldiers, armed in their stings,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Finds the down pillow hard. Now, peace be here,
  LORD BARDOLPH. What, is the King but five and twenty thousand?
     Their precious stones new lost; became his guide,  
    Revenge upon the Cardinal.
  ESCALUS. Go to, go to; no matter for the dish, sir.
  OTHELLO.                         Sweet soul, take heed,
Sennet. Enter AGAMEMNON, NESTOR, ULYSSES, DIOMEDES, MENELAUS, and others
THE END
    With one of Priam's daughters.
    Go in, and weep not; all things shall be well.
  My food, my fortune, and my sweet hope's aim,
    Without controlment, justice, or revenge?
    With such prophetic greeting? Speak, I charge you.
    Threw many a northward look to see his father
  KATHERINE. De hand. Et les doigts?
    Or shall we bite our tongues, and in dumb shows
    honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can
    And from this testimony of your own sex,

    Arise, I say!
    For princes to come view fair Portia.

    And giv'n unto the house of York such head  

  CASSIO. Something from Cyprus, as I may divine;
    The palace full of tongues, of eyes, and ears;
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Seventh sweet, adieu!  
    And in devotion spend my latter days,
    Giving myself a voluntary wound
    Tell him that by his license Fortinbras
    Lord John of Lancaster.
    With, hoo! such bugs and goblins in my life-
    With rival-hating envy, set on you
    But fare thee well; thou art a gallant youth;
  COSTARD. The matter is to me, sir, as concerning Jaquenetta.

    weep for him, then spit at him; that I drave my suitor from his  
  Prince. Your money!
            Enter TALBOT, BEDFORD, BURGUNDY, a CAPTAIN,
      To lose an oath to win a paradise?'
    And virtue stoops and trembles at her frown.
    home; he has more cause to be proud. Where is he wounded?
    He should not humor me. I will this night,
  IACHIMO. All too soon I shall,
    Will be as rash in the repeal as hasty
    O, two such silver currents, when they join,
    With busy hammers closing rivets up,

    But to be still hot summer's tanlings and
    Like heralds 'twixt two dreadful battles set.
    Then had not Grumio come by the worst.

    Once by the King and three times thrice by thee,
    And I be pleas'd to give ten thousand ducats
    Then tell me, if I get your daughter's love,  
    Upon these paltry, servile, abject drudges!
    thy companion. Why dost thou converse with that trunk of humours,
    A lioness hath whelped in the streets;
    altogether govern'd by humours. Lie still, ye thief, and hear the
    Let me ne'er see again.                            Exit MESSENGER
    With the brave beast. So far he topp'd my thought
    Yet hasty marriage seldom proveth well.
    A benefit in this change; but if you seek
    Well, lords, we have not got that which we have;
    That hath a stomach; and such a one that dare
    So, traitor, then she comes when she is thence.
     The to-and-fro-conflicting wind and rain.
    Whose father bears the title of a king-

    My manors, rents, revenues, I forgo;
  RATCLIFF. Bad news, my lord: Morton is fled to Richmond;
    We cannot cross the cause why we were born,
    Now be a freeman, and with this good sword,
  CORIN. No, truly.
  CLIFFORD. So cowards fight when they can fly no further;
    No more obey the heavens than our courtiers
     With base? with baseness? bastardy? base, base?
    him?
  AUMERLE. 'Farewell.'
  ALL LADIES. Most thankfully, my lord.
  FIRST WATCH. Let's speak to him.
  FLUELLEN. Yes, my conscience, he did us great good.
   And wholesome berries thrive and ripen best
    Well, I will back him straight. O esperance!
    But since I cannot, be it known unto you

  Both. My lord, from head to foot.
    Becomes a woman best; I'll take't upon me;
  DUCHESS. So many miseries have craz'd my voice
  BASTARD. Old Time the clock-setter, that bald sexton Time,
    Of every minute's instance, present now,
                      Enter CHARMIAN
    From the murtherer's gibbet throw
    'Tis too much prov'd, that with devotion's visage

SCENE II.
  MENENIUS. Shall it be put to that?
    The forest walks are wide and spacious,
    And so, with thanks and pardon to you all,
    That he will not be won to aught against him.
    The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay,
     Who, in the lusty stealth of nature, take
  LUCIO. Yes, in good sooth, the vice is of a great kindred; it is

  Hot. Sick now? droop now? This sickness doth infect
  Pluck the keen teeth from the fierce tiger's jaws,
    That are but mutes or audience to this act,
    Thou runaway, thou coward, art thou fled?
    I will embrace thee in it by and by.
  O how thy worth with manners may I sing,

  LAUNCE. Fie on thee, jolt-head; thou canst not read.
    The pow'rs, delaying, not forgetting, have
                                                         Exeunt.
  ARMADO. Warble, child; make passionate my sense of hearing.
  SECOND LORD. [Aside] No; but he fled forward still, toward your
  TIMON. Do so, my friends.
    Sweat drops of gallant youth in our rich fields-
                     Enter the Soothsayer.
    Making both it unable for itself
    brother to him; and I'll be sworn 'a ne'er saw him but once in

    From off the head of this Athenian swain,
    And yet no farther than a wanton's bird,
  HELENA. Fine, i' faith!
   With such a heady currance, scouring faults;
  HOLOFERNES. The deer was, as you know, sanguis, in blood; ripe as
    Were almost like a sharp-quill'd porpentine;

Rome. A public place
    I dare thee but to breathe upon my love.
  While comments of your praise richly compiled,
    They say he parted well and paid his score,
  Beat. A very even way, but no such friend.
     I'ld say I had eyes again!
  PROSPERO. In this last tempest. I perceive these lords
    If I may counsel you, some day or two
  VIOLA. Nay, an thou pass upon me, I'll no more with thee.  
    And in the witness of his proper ear,
  CASSIUS. And died so?  
    It is of such a spacious lofty pitch
    And from that full meridian of my glory

  CLITUS. Fly, fly, my lord, there is no tarrying here.
    Till he unseam'd him from the nave to the chaps,
    For sinking under them.
    Which breath'd this poison.
    call you, come forth, and, without any pause or

  ALL. Peace, ho!  
    I throw my hands, mine eyes, my heart to Thee,
  SEBASTIAN. My kind Antonio,
  PROSPERO. Come forth, I say; there's other business for thee.
    it: it is prodigious, there will come some change; the sun
    The livelong day with patient expectation
    So good a quarrel and so bad a peer.
    And, for my heart disdained that my tongue
    'Peace, tawny slave, half me and half thy dam!
                     Enter Lady Macbeth.
    Lamentings heard i' the air, strange screams of death,
    For visiting your Highness. My best train
    I, by the honour of my marriage-bed,
  DUCHESS. I will not peace. What is the matter, Aumerle?
    standers-by to curtail his oaths. Ha?
    Any thing in or out of our demands;
    in abundance?
    King's tent; wherefore the King most worthily hath caus'd every

  CASSIUS. Do you confess so much? Give me your hand.
  Fool. Mark it, nuncle.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Gall! bitter.
    That, though I want a kingdom, yet in marriage
    A stone by thee.                     [Throws a stone at him]
  OTHELLO. Are you wise?
    me. Let ten thousand devils come against me, and give me but the
    Hath my maid's garments. He, upon some action,  
    That princely novice, was struck dead by thee?  
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Would he were gelt that had it, for my part,
    When cowardice pursues and valour flies.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
     shallow, beggarly, three-suited, hundred-pound, filthy,
    Attempts her love; I prithee, noble lord,  
    For the demand of our neglected tribute.
  OLIVIA. He hath been most notoriously abus'd.
    And thou and Romeo press one heavy bier!
    Win me and wear me! Let him answer me.
    Call on him for't! But to confound such time
  The eyes (fore duteous) now converted are
    You that have so fair parts of woman on you
    The other, London.
    Shallow, be what thou wilt- I am Fortune's steward. Get on thy
  SALISBURY. My sovereign lord, bestow yourself with speed:  
    Doth grossly close it in, we cannot hear it.  
    Will never let come forth.
    Do so conjointly meet, let not men say
    But I will write again to Mantua,
  ISABELLA. O gracious Duke,
    O heavens, that they were living both in Naples,
    Now, Titinius! Now some light. O, he lights too.
    Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,

                Enter CORIOLANUS, in a gown of humility,
    May never glorious sun reflex his beams
  TROILUS. O traitor Diomed! Turn thy false face, thou traitor,
The hall in Leonato's house.
    Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments
    Before thy face repent!
    In fear our motion will be mock'd or carp'd at,
  WARWICK. You were best to go to bed and dream again
  CASSIO. I do not understand.

    And that I would not for a cow, God save her!
    than seeming the lover of any other.
  GRUMIO. Nay, then I will not; you shall have the mustard,
    The stumbling night did part our weary pow'rs?
  BEROWNE. Your nose smells 'no' in this, most tender-smelling
    Thou pure impiety and impious purity!
    the Prince, Claudio and my master, planted and placed and
    To County Paris, to prepare him up
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Up to some scaffold, there to lose their
  PAROLLES. Are you meditating on virginity?
    Herod of Jewry dare not look upon you
                                                       Exit CASSANDRA
  Lear. I prithee, daughter, do not make me mad.
    Nay, sit, nay, sit, good cousin Capulet,
    Than violent'st contrariety.
                           Enter ISABELLA
    Let her not hurt me. I was never curst;


    She is your treasure, she must have a husband;
    Like to the empty ass, to shake his ears
  SEBASTIAN. Sir, you may thank yourself for this great loss,
    And do as I have bid you.
    And turn'd crown'd kings to merchants.
    whoreson little valiant villain, you!
  KATHERINE. Alice, tu as ete en Angleterre, et tu parles bien le
    Able to bear against the great Aufidius
    too, howsoever he hath had intelligence.
    that Don John had made, away went Claudio enrag'd; swore he would
     blamed as mine own jealous curiosity than as a very pretence
  JAQUES. What, for a counter, would I do but good?


  Cor. O you kind gods,
    Shall Rome, etc. Speak, strike, redress!"
  DUKE. My gentleman, Cesario?
    Now are our brows bound with victorious wreaths;
    That were embattailed and rank'd in Kent.
    For my confections? Having thus far proceeded-
  OTHELLO. O Iago!
    Till I and my affairs are answered.
    dukes it well in his absence; he puts transgression to't.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  PAINTER. I saw them speak together.  
        Playing in the wanton air.
    Brave son, derived from honorable loins!
    But fare you well; perforce I must confess
  OTHELLO. This fortification, gentlemen, shall we see't?
  MACBETH. Bring them before us.                 Exit Attendant.
  Rom. In bed asleep, while they do dream things true.  
    I evermore did love you, Hermia,
  Prince. I am now of all humours that have showed themselves humours
    Between her heart and lips. She rend'red life,
                             Enter Edgar.
    His faith, his sweet disaster; with a world
  FIRST NEIGHBOUR. Here, neighbour Horner, I drink to you in a cup of
    Oft have I digg'd up dead men from their graves,
  FROTH. Here in Vienna, sir.
    And I will sign it.

  Without all ornament, it self and true,
  Samp. Let us take the law of our sides; let them begin.  
    Comes rushing on this woeful land at once!
    This after me. I have writ my name
    The time was, father, that you broke your word,
    Is guilty of this fault, and not my son.
  GROOM. I was a poor groom of thy stable, King,  
    'Tween man and man they weigh not every stamp;
    I had been still a happy king of men.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Travelling some journey, to repose him here.
  CORIOLANUS. Have I had children's voices?
    Nor tackle, sail, nor mast; the very rats
    Here sits a king more woeful than you are.
  ROSALINE. There, then, that vizard; that superfluous case
  MAN. I am not Samson, nor Sir Guy, nor Colbrand,
    speak in the behalf of my daughter; which, in the minority of
Enter Roderigo and Iago.
  PHILARIO. Signior Iachimo will not from it. Pray let us follow 'em.
    With all the fierce endeavour of your wit,
    Dicky your boy, that with his grumbling voice
    As to be hush'd and nought at an to say.  
    Did ever raven sing so like a lark
    Their woes are parcell'd, mine is general.
    Yet, though thou stand'st more sure than I could do,
    Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
    And cry 'O Clarence, my unhappy son!'?
  SIR TOBY. Save you, gentleman!
    If you did know to whom I gave the ring,
    And by the way possess thee what she is.
    But by some unlook'd accident cut off!
    the greater.
    door. Shall we be merry?
    fairly last night.
    Was as a scorpion to her sight; whose life,
    See how my sword weeps for the poor King's death.
    Whose blush doth thaw the consecrated snow
    Of late with passions of some difference,
    That sought to be encompass'd with your crown.
    Like doth quit like, and Measure still for Measure.
    From off my hands, here in the view of men
    While as the silly owner of the goods
    Were stol'n; and to this hour no guess in knowledge
              High wedlock then be honoured.
    And thou (all they) hast all the all of me.
    meat, we'll have in drink. But you must bear; the heart's all.

ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Not mad, but mated; how, I do not know.
  GOWER. I must wait upon my good lord here, I thank you, good Sir
    He calls me to a restitution large
    Halts not particularly, but moves itself
    Whose mouth is covered with rude-growing briers,
    Signior Gremio, came you from the church?
    Fulvia perchance is angry; or who knows
    Up in my heart, which I have given already,
  ISABELLA. Which is the least?
    In love whereof half Hector stays at home;

    Have been as bondmen to thy sovereignty.
    And know their spring, their head, their true descent;
  VIOLA. I pray you, sir, what is he?
     That he suspects none; on whose foolish honesty
    Till he be dieted to my request,
  FALSTAFF. Is this true, Pistol?
    But, Host, doth this Sir Proteus, that we talk on,

                          Enter DUKE
    Such precious deeds in one that promis'd nought
    We prove this very hour.
  CLITUS,       "    "     "
  Applying fears to hopes, and hopes to fears,
                    Re-enter GUIDERIUS
    Because that I am little, like an ape,
    They dance? They are mad women.
    Your banish'd honours and restore yourselves
    I will not shame myself to give you this.
  JAQUES. O worthy fool! One that hath been a courtier,
  LADY MACDUFF. I hope, in no place so unsanctified
  BOTH TRIBUNES. Well, well, sir, well.
    That seeks not to find that her search implies,
  King. Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
     like. Our posts shall be swift and intelligent betwixt us.

    Though I look old, yet I am strong and lusty;
    Her father is no better than an earl,
    hangman's boys in the market-place; and then I offer'd her mine
    she loves you. Have not your worship a wart above your eye?
    porter.
    So does it no man else. Met'st thou my posts?

                                 [They fight and CLIFFORD falls]
    Assure yourselves, will never be unkind.
  DUKE OF VENICE. Antonio and old Shylock, both stand forth.
  Osr. The King, sir, hath wager'd with him six Barbary horses;
  Edg. None at all.
    So strange, outrageous, and so variable,
    And I with them the third night kept the watch;
  TAMORA, Queen of the Goths
    To lie that way thou goest, not whence thou com'st.
    My wife to France, from whence set forth in pomp,
  KING RICHARD. No lord of thine, thou haught insulting man,
  VINCENTIO. Come hither, you rogue. What, have you forgot me?
BIONDELLO, and GRUMIO, bringing in a banquet
  BARDOLPH. Well said; th'art a good fellow.
    Whereof the ewe not bites; and you whose pastime
    And in that quarrel use it to the death.
    I have long dreamt of such a kind of man,
    my greatness to acknowledge it. Doth it not show vilely in me to

  Pedro. And you too, gentle Hero?

    What ruin happened in revenge of him,
Before LORD HASTING'S house
    she be fair, 'tis the better for her; an she be not, she has the
    Oppos'd to hinder me, should stop my way,
  SECOND LORD. Thou hast done a deed whereat valour will weep.
    The rightful heir to England's royal seat.
     drunkards, liars, and adulterers by an enforc'd obedience of
    And shall she carry this unto her grave?
     Know'st thou this paper?
  DIOMEDES. Will you remember?
    And reverend looker-on of two fair queens.
    Shall quite strike off all service I have done

  DERCETAS. He is dead, Caesar,
    O, what a scandal is it to our crown
  MALVOLIO. 'And wish'd to see thee cross-garterd.'
  SECOND SOLDIER. Captain, I will.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Money by me! Heart and goodwill you might,
    a duck, I'll be sworn.
    Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  Ham. How long will a man lie i' th' earth ere he rot?
  HORTENSIO. Now shall my friend Petruchio do me grace,
    How deeply you at once do touch me! Imogen,
  TITUS. Because I would be sure to have all well
  Fal. No, that's certain! I am not a double man; but if I be not
  BRUTUS. No.
  PAROLLES. What, what, sweetheart?  
    His wisdom can provide. Some holy angel
  GLOUCESTER. Ah, Nell, forbear! Thou aimest all awry.
    cannon bullets. There is no slander in an allow'd fool, though he
  EMILIA. A daughter, and a goodly babe,
    Part us, Northumberland; I towards the north,
  CLEOPATRA. Thou teachest like a fool- the way to lose him.

  AUFIDIUS. That I would have spoken of.
    Even as a splitted bark, so sunder we:
    And dead almost, my liege, to think you were-
    O hound of Crete, think'st thou my spouse to get?
  GOBBO. Your worship's friend, and Launcelot, sir.
    Sell every man his life as dear as mine,
    Which daily grew to quarrel and to bloodshed,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    And as my fortune ripens with thy love,
  Mort. Yea, but
  VERNON. Now, sir, to you, that were so hot at sea,

  ARMADO. The naked truth of it is: I have no shirt; I go woolward
  When he again desires her, being sat,

    Are full of rest, defense, and nimbleness.
    He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
    Withdraw with us; and let the trumpets sound
    Can be but brief; for I have made him know
    for I know thou worshippest Saint Nicholas as truly as a man of
    Farewell, my coz.
    But let my favours hide thy mangled face;
    Not half an hour before.
    Than if the Earl were here; for men must think,
    That they have caught the King; and who knows yet
    and henceforth let a Welsh correction teach you a good English
    my bed, the testimonies whereof lie bleeding in me. I speak not
    Send for the lady to the Sagittary,
    But I will rise there with so full a glory
    tongue.
  STEPHANO. Come on, then; down, and swear.
  SECOND LORD. His own impatience
  CYMBELINE. That mightst have had the sole son of my queen!
    She priz'd it once.
    Him, and his innocent child; for which foul deed
    Pale Hecate's offerings; and wither'd Murther,
    Thy words move rage and not remorse in me.  
    What should I stay-                                   [Dies]

    But what the repining enemy commends,

    Of you, Lord Woodville, and, Lord Scales, of you;
  GREMIO. I warrant him, Petruchio is Kated.

    Abate thy valour in the acting it.
  Fal. Come, my masters, let us share, and then to horse before day.
  Want nothing that the thought of hearts can mend:
    The more I have, for both are infinite.

    Pursue him to his house and pluck him thence,
  Gent. Ay, sir. She took them, read them in my presence,
  NORFOLK. This same Cranmer's
    Faster than thought or time.
    beginning.
    thy arms o' this fashion? Dost make hose of thy sleeves? Do other
    Utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl,
  PANDARUS. And Cassandra laugh'd.
Enter Goneril and [Edmund the] Bastard.
    Peace, Troyan; lay thy finger on thy lips.
  Knight. I beseech you pardon me, my lord, if I be mistaken; for
    Thy love's to me religious; else, does err.
    In three divided; and his coffers sound
  I guess one angel in another's hell.
                                               Exit WESTMORELAND
    And then he drew a dial from his poke,
    Loosing upon thee in the name of justice,
    drove the grossness of the foppery into a receiv'd belief,
  NORTHUMBERLAND. My lord-
  PROTEUS. No; but she is an earthly paragon.
     I'll bring you comfort.
    Than dangerous to me. To Aufidius thus
    is incurable. Go bear this letter to my Lord of Lancaster; this

  MACDUFF. I shall do so,
    His words come from his mouth, ours from our breast.  

    To wear them like his raiment, carelessly,
    Hath with the King's blood stain'd the King's own land.
     As clears her from all blame.
    But, Valentine being gone, I'll quickly cross

    So he be dead; for that is good deceit
    O'erbears Your offices. The rabble call him lord;
    Did to thy father, steep'd in Rutland's blood-
    Faster than spring-time show'rs comes thought on thought,
     That way, I'll this), he that first lights on him  
    And well we may come there by dinner-time.  
    melancholy upon your head!
    Ever since it could speak, from an infant, freely,
  LODOVICO. Sir, you shall understand what hath befall'n,
    Alas, this is a child, a silly dwarf!
  TITUS. Art thou Revenge? and art thou sent to me
                                                       [Digging]
The heath. Before a hovel.
    He beats thee 'gainst the odds. Thy lustre thickens
  MACBETH. Hath he ask'd for me?
    Did seem defensible. So you left him.
    'Tis an unseason'd courtier; good my lord,
  TRINCULO. I should know that voice; it should be-but he is  
  CHIRON. Show me a villain that hath done a rape,
    There is another comfort than this world,
    they laugh at him and beat him. I am sure he is in the fleet.
    Which fear if better reasons can supplant,
    Brutus is ta'en, Brutus is ta'en, my lord.
  TRANIO. That's but a cavil; he is old, I young.
  CLAUDIO. Come, officer, away.                           Exeunt
    Some surety for a safe return again,
    Not to behold-
    And comes to his election presently.
    Will want true colour- tears perchance for blood.
    As asses are.
    Why stand we like soft-hearted women here,
           After the BEADLE hath hit him once, he leaps over
    O, none of both but are of high desert!
    The monk might be deceiv'd, and that 'twas dangerous
    Love they to live that love and honour have.
    Is every flatterer's spirit. Who can call him his friend
    To have turn'd my leaping time into a crutch,
    To gratify your honourable youth,
  Beggared of blood to blush through lively veins,
    For then I'll marry Warwick's youngest daughter.
    Sorry am I that our good will effects
  KING. You all look strangely on me; and you most.
 ELY. We are blessed in the change.
    the match is made. Would any man have thought this? See
Enter Cornwall, Regan, Goneril, [Edmund the] Bastard, and Servants.

    As this which now I draw.

  AGAMEMNON, the Greek general
    In second accent of his ordinance.

    She might have been o'er ta'en; and yet she writes
    put up your iron; you are well flesh'd. Come on.
    And, in some taste, is Lepidus but so:
    The burden of my sorrows fall upon ye.
    CAIUS. By my trot, I tarry too long. Od's me! Qu'ai j'oublie?
    The numbers of the feared. Please it your Grace
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Against Northumberland and the Archbishop.
    So far ask pardon as befits mine honour
    Welcome, my lord. How far off lies your power?
  PETER. That my master was? No, forsooth. My master said that he
  BRUTUS. You speak o' th' people
  But that I hope some good conceit of thine
    Restor'd me to my honours, and out of ruins
    They say, poor gentleman, he's much distract.
    The Empress sends it thee, thy stamp, thy seal,
    Nor dignifies an impair thought with breath;
    And, for your friend's sake, will be glad of you-
    My soul consents not to give sovereignty.
    As worldlings do, giving thy sum of more
    more, ha?
    pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my
    as she went to the garden for parsley to stuff a rabbit; and so
  POMPEY. Thou hast serv'd me with much faith. What's else to say?-
ACT III. SCENE I.
    Once every hour.
Alarum. Enter KING HENRY alone
  Verg. Well, give them their charge, neighbour Dogberry.
    Away, you trifler! Love? I love thee not;
  BEROWNE. No, my good lord; I have sworn to stay with you;
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    And all the shrouds wherewith my life should sail
  Bard. My lord, do you see these meteors? Do you behold these
    Not changing heart with habit, I am still
  CASSIO. This is the monkey's own giving out. She is persuaded I
    The harm of unscann'd swiftness, will, too late,
    by my coming. Every man has his fault, and honesty is his. I ha'
  PAGE. Save you, good Sir Hugh!
  A CAPTAIN
  LUCIUS. Here in the tent.
  MOTH. That an eel is quick.
     Upon a wheel of fire, that mine own tears
    doth
    --an innocent rhyme; for 'scorn,' 'horn'--a hard rhyme; for
  Lear. My wits begin to turn.
    By the imprisoning of unruly wind
  Hor. While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.

    Doublets, I think-flew up, and had their faces
  SERVANT. What, think you the King shall be deposed?
    Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee
    In this self-place where now we mean to stand.
    Make thee another self for love of me,
    We freely cope your courteous pains withal.  
  AARON. My gracious lord, here is the bag of gold.
  But to procrastinate his lifeless end.
  Making dead wood more blest than living lips,
    For which your honour and your faith is pawn'd:
    And by their hands this grace of kings must die-
    Throw your vile guesses in the devil's teeth,
    Who in that sale sells pardon from himself-

  Ham. Nay come! again!                         The Queen falls.  
    Alcides, thou mine ancestor, thy rage;
  GREEN. Ah, madam, 'tis too true; and that is worse,
    Even till that England, hedg'd in with the main,
    So get thee gone; good night. Mine eyes do itch;
    Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more.
    I do beseech you, good my lords, keep on;
    Which all men speak with him.
     With thine, and all that offer to defend him,

  Dog. Marry, sir, they have committed false report; moreover, they  

  MARTIUS. He is not with himself; let us withdraw.
  Hot. 'But, for mine own part, my lord, I could be well contented to
    Or be admitted to your Highness' Council.
    Steering with due course toward the isle of Rhodes,
    Who hath cause to wet the grief on't.

    For her delivery to this valiant Greek
    you a remuneration.' Why, it carries it. Remuneration! Why, it is
  QUICKLY. From the two parties, forsooth.
    And draw her home with music.                        [Music]
    So kind a father of the commonweal,
    Show boldness and aspiring confidence.
  DESDEMONA. I ne'er saw this before.
and GARTER speaks
    In thee there is not half an hour of life.
  KING. Take her by the hand,
    Will stand a tip-toe when this day is nam'd,
 CANTERBURY. The courses of his youth promis'd it not.
    Let's to the altar. Heralds, wait on us.
  Lear. To tak't again perforce! Monster ingratitude!
      lands,
  My sole earth's heaven, and my heaven's claim.
  ANNE. Fouler than heart can think thee, thou canst make
    So flew'd, so sanded; and their heads are hung
    be loath to foil him, as I must, for my own honour, if he come
  I'll entertain the offer'd fallacy.

  MRS. FORD. O woman, if it were not for one trifling respect,
  DUKE. Therefore we marvel much our cousin France
    As fish are in a pond. But now the Bishop
  That floated with thee on the fatal raft?

    In storm perpetual, could not move the gods

    I'll lend you something. My having is not much;
    Dost please thyself in't?
    stay; feast your ears with the music awhile, if they will fare so
    himself a young gallant! What an unweighed behaviour
    That passion cannot rule.

    For torturers ingenious. It is I
    What say you? Will you yield, and this avoid?
    There's something in me that reproves my fault;
           Enter OLD LADY
  CLEOPATRA. Hie thee again.
    'Tis since the nuptial of Lucentio,
    By indirections find directions out.
  MENENIUS. For corn at their own rates, whereof they say
     Be not familiar with her.
  LAUNCE.  [Handing over the paper]  There; and Saint Nicholas be thy
  DUCHESS. Either thou wilt die by God's just ordinance
    In Ilion on your Greekish embassy.
The DUKE'S palace
    You use your manners discreetly in all kind of companies.

    A lustre to it.
    do. Look, here comes the Duke.
    I pray thee, do on them some violent death;
    Which do but what they should, by doing everything
    he went not in himself; if he had found the young man,
  DUKE. I cannot be so answer'd.
  AGAMEMNON. What Troyan is that same that looks so heavy?
    you; so you may continue, and laugh at nothing still.
  ARMADO. Sweet air! Go, tenderness of years, take this key, give
    Nor ever had one penny bribe from France.
    And in my loyal bosom lies his power.
  HERMIONE. Take the boy to you; he so troubles me,
    The lamp entreats the butcher. Where's thy knife?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Marrying my sister, that thy mother was,
    I know no pain they can inflict upon him
  More than that tongue that more hath more expressed.
    Or bath'd thy growing with our heated bloods.
  GUIDERIUS. This is, sir, a doubt
    I could not miss my way. Will poor folks lie,

    And with that blood will make 'em one day groan fort.
    If your pure maidens fall into the hand
     A royal nobleness. I must embrace thee.
  PRINCE JOHN. Send Colville, with his confederates,
  BASTARD. Knight, knight, good mother, Basilisco-like.
  PANDARUS. Well, I say Troilus is Troilus.
  PROSPERO. Dull thing, I say so; he, that Caliban
    That stroke would prove the worst!
  CASSIO.                       Ay, but, lady,

    Have you done there?

    being so far officious; for I am proof against that title, and
    This quarrel will drink blood another day.            Exeunt
    But take the High'st to witness. Then, pray you, tell me:
    And therewithal to win me, if you please,
    An honest one, I warrant, who deserv'd
    My marvel and my message. To your court
  Hor. Before my God, I might not this believe
    Deal between thee and me! For even now
    To this great fairy I'll commend thy acts,  
    That anything he sees which moves his liking
     These weeds are memories of those worser hours.
    Firm and irrevocable is my doom
  BRUTUS. He greets me well. Your master, Pindarus,
  LORENZO. I shall answer that better to the commonwealth than you
    That it but mocks reproof.  
    more than they can commend.

  BRUTUS. Sheathe your dagger.  
    kissing carrion- Have you a daughter?
    This day, all things begun come to ill end,
    'Tis well there's one above 'em yet. I had thought

  CINNA. Yes, you are.

    Beware you lose it not. For us, if you please
  STEPHANO. Trinculo, keep a good tongue in your head; if

  SECOND LORD. Throca movousus, cargo, cargo, cargo.
  HORTENSIO. Sirrah Biondello, go and entreat my wife

    But to be safely thus. Our fears in Banquo.
    expressive to them; for they wear themselves in the cap of the
    I'll venture one have-at-him.
    Humanely taken, all, all lost, quite lost;
    I hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it,
  KING. What's the need?
    And mine that I was proud on--mine so much
  Or bends with the remover to remove.
    Of semblable import- but he hath wag'd
    I am fall'n in this offence.
  BOYET. You are too hard for me.                         Exeunt
  MRS. FORD. What, John! Robert! John!                Exit ROBIN
    And stablish quietness on every side.
         To draw with idle spiders' strings
    Lead to the Sagittary the raised search,
    He only, in a general honest thought
    Of a poor pothecary, and therewithal
    Come, fellow soldier, make thou proclamation.
    Lascivious Edward, and thou perjur'd George,
    My heart is not compact of flint nor steel;
  DUKE. A widow, then?
  VOLUMNIA. O, he is wounded, I thank the gods for't.
    That makes the wappen'd widow wed again-
  ANTONY. Post back with speed and tell him what hath chanced.
    After our sentence plaining comes too late.
    Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.
    prove an ass.
    Red as 'twould burn Rome, and his injury  
    tear, nor speaks a word; but see how I lay the dust with my
    Thou dost not slumber: see thy two sons' heads,
    To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool,
    No word to save thee.
    That slanders me with murder's crimson badge.
  YORK. What, will you go unto the Tower, my lord?
    And there did seem in him a kind of joy

  CROMWELL. That Cranmer is return'd with welcome,
    He hath a kind of honour sets him of  

    Or with the clamorous report of war  
  SHYLOCK. Who bids thee call? I do not bid thee call.
                         Enter CAPHIS
  AARON. My mistress is my mistress: this my self,
  And given grace a double majesty.

     [Points at Lear] That's a sheal'd peascod.
  CASSIO. Indeed she's a most fresh and delicate creature.
  Poins. Stand close! I hear them coming.  
    Where is my wife?
  GLOUCESTER. Clarence, excuse me to the King my brother.
    Who in this dull and long-continued truce

  MAECENAS. When such a spacious mirror's set before him,
    To mitigate the justice of thy plea,  

    In seeking to augment it, but still keep  
  ANTONIO. The latter end of his commonwealth forgets the
  DESDEMONA. [Sings.]
    My lessons make no music in three Parts.
    Yet, were there but this single plot to lose,
    name; for you might have thrust him and all his apparel into an
  Beat. As strange as the thing I know not. It were as possible for

     thy sweet heart on proud array. Tom 's acold.
    Than this kind kiss. O Lord, that lends me life,
  Pedro. What? sigh for the toothache?

    Then should I know you by description-
    But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
    I know my life so even. If your business
  PHILOTUS. Labouring for nine.
    And, gasping to begin some speech, her eyes
  LAFEU. That gave him out incurable-
    Harmless Richard was murdered traitorously.
    And fence not Athens! Matrons, turn incontinent.
    'Warwick, revenge! Brother, revenge my death.'
    Shaking the bloody darts as he his bells.  
  Straight in her heart did mercy come,
  SERVANT. He, my lord; but he hath since done good service at
Enter HOLOFERNES, SIR NATHANIEL, and DULL
    an't be not, so. No man's too good to serve 's Prince; and, let
  MALVOLIO. Fool, I'll requite it in the highest degree; I prithe be
  MENENIUS. That's off, that's off;
    the German hunting, in water-work, is worth a thousand of these
  NESTOR. [Aside] O, this is well! He rubs the vein of him.
    Harry Bolingbroke, doth humbly kiss thy hand;  
  DUMAIN. Most rare Pompey!  
  JULIA. I think she doth, and that's her cause of sorrow.
    Kill me outright with looks, and rid my pain.


  YORK. Against them both, my true joints bended be.

    With an entreaty, herein further shown,
    Let the mark have a prick in't, to mete at, if it may be.
  SECOND LORD. Sweet Monsieur Parolles!

  When day's oppression is not eased by night,
    A savour that may strike the dullest nostril  
    lay you ten thousand ducats to your ring that, commend me to the
Enter Hero and two Gentlewomen, Margaret and Ursula.
  MONTJOY. I shall, King Harry. And so fare thee well:
     Do hourly carp and quarrel, breaking forth
    Thy daemon, that thy spirit which keeps thee, is
  MOTH. And I, tough signior, as an appertinent title to your old
    Brother, thou shalt to London presently
Enter the PRINCESS, ROSALINE, MARIA, KATHARINE, BOYET, LORDS, ATTENDANTS,
    And chid his truant youth with such a grace
    How he did shake. 'Tis true, this god did shake;
Padua. Before BAPTISTA'So house
    thou look'st cheerly; and I'll be with thee quickly. Yet thou
    As to have ask'd him pardon. Let this fellow
    Your lady being so easy.
    Lucullus, entreats your company to-morrow to hunt with him and  
  VIRGILIA. What then!
  Edm. Sir, I shall study deserving.

    Lend me the flourish of all gentle tongues-
                                      [JUNO descends in her car]
    And will acknowledge you and Jessica
    That way inclining, hard'ned be the hearts
    The swords of soldiers are his teeth, his fangs;
  CLOWN. Nay, truly, sir, I could never say grace in all my life.
  DUKE SENIOR. By my faith, he is very swift and sententious.
  FALSTAFF. What money is in my purse?
  LENNOX. Ay, my good lord.
                   Enter GREEN
    Than was that young and princely gentleman.
    to the Prince my master.
    This dagger hath mista'en, for, lo, his house
  GAUNT. God's is the quarrel; for God's substitute,  
  GAUNT. God in thy good cause make thee prosperous!
    And give her to young Claudio.
    Their deer to th' stand o' th' stealer; and 'tis gold
    And dull to all proceedings. A deflow'red maid!
     one of his men was with the Lord Lucullus to borrow so many
    Of gold and jewels that I bobb'd from him,  
    By hers and mine adultery. He, true knight,

    Let Neptune hear we bid a loud farewell

    The wretched, bloody, and usurping boar,
    yonder?
   And monarchs to behold the swelling scene!
    Marry, this is yet but young, and may be left
  PYRAMUS. Not Shafalus to Procrus was so true.
    Thy hand hath murd'red him. I had a mighty cause
    With profitable labour, to his grave.
    And she died singing it. That song tonight
  PETRUCHIO. O, ho! entreat her!
    Shall make me live. Who knows himself a braggart,
    Heaven and fortune bar me happy hours!
    O me! come near me now I am much ill.
ANGELO. He had, my lord, and when he ran in here,
  Alb. Sir, you have show'd to-day your valiant strain,
    'Twill be two days ere I shall see you; so
     Should have him thus restrain'd.
    Lord Hastings was, for her delivery?
    Or say 'tis not your seal, not your invention;
  COSTARD. An I had but one penny in the world, thou shouldst have it
    With their own nobleness, which could have turn'd
    That ever Brutus will go bound to Rome;
    A knot you are of damned blood-suckers.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Were there no more but it.
  THERSITES. Fare ye well, with all my heart.
    For thee, O Imogen, even for whom my life
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Why, give it to my wife, and fetch your money.
    If there be here German, or Dane, Low Dutch,
    How would he hang his slender gilded wings
    proclaim her with all certainty to be the King's daughter. Did  
  PROSPERO. You do yet taste
  RODERIGO. I will hear further reason for this.
  OLD LADY. Beshrew me, I would,

  KING HENRY. From Scotland am I stol'n, even of pure love,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  Ham. Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your

    furnish it anon with new contents. Swear.
    Me as his abject object. At this instant
    Would make me sad.

                    Lips, do not move;
  Glou. I do remember now. Henceforth I'll bear
    Your importunacy cease till after dinner,
    Give rest to th' minds of others such as he
    That thou vouchsafing here to visit me,
    Ay, this is he that took King Henry's chair,
    As infants' empty of all thought!
  ROSS. The commons hath he pill'd with grievous taxes;


  CHARLES. O, no; forbear! For that which we have fled  
  How heavy do I journey on the way,
    The one by th' other.
  PAULINA. It is requir'd
    Who are the late commissioners?
    We were dissuaded by our wicked queen,
    O Phoebus, hadst thou never given consent
    Both to defend himself, and to approve
  DEMETRIUS. Soft! who comes here?
  Mer. True, I talk of dreams;
  MARIA. He hath indeed, almost natural; for, besides that he's a
  COSTARD. My sweet ounce of man's flesh, my incony Jew!
    And thou, thrice-crowned Queen of Night, survey
  CLOWN. Ay, by any means, prove a tall fellow. If I do not wonder
    That thou commend it strangely to some place  
     Her delicate cheek. It seem'd she was a queen
  TRANIO. Greybeard, thy love doth freeze.
    Do glue themselves in sociable grief,
     this villain, Edmund; it shall lose thee nothing; do it
    Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
  ACHILLES. O, tell, tell,
  COMINIUS. He'll never hear him.
    I am not in the roll of common men.
    And give it food. There is an old poor man  

    To your well-practis'd wise directions.
    out in our latter times.
    ne nightingale, if she should sing by day,
  MALVOLIO. M- Malvolio; M- why, that begins my name.
    That stay at home, if bearing carry it;
  VOLUMNIA. Then his good report should have been my son; I therein  
    And would in action glorious I had lost
  ANTONY. Now let it work. Mischief, thou art afoot,
    they be long ere they are wooed, they are constant being won;
    The rest stand all aloof and bark at him.  
  TRINCULO. By this light, a most perfidious and drunken
  EMILIA. By heaven, I do not, I do not, gentlemen.  

  CAESAR. That ever I should call thee cast-away!
    And when I am forgotten, as I shall be,


  CORIOLANUS. Let them pull all about mine ears, present me
    Than doth your brother that hath banish'd you.
    The numbers of our host, and make discovery
    Where we may take him and disgrace him for it.  
    hurt. It is a throughfare for steel if it be not hurt.
  Marg. Not a false gallop.
    her, and give me directly to understand you have prevail'd, I am
     fool and a sweet fool?
    That struck the foremost man of all this world
    If Helen, then, be wife to Sparta's king-
  King. It likes us well;
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE

    You would be satisfied?
  Kent. O my good master!
    'Tis now the King's, and called Whitehall.
    heart, tears her hair, prays, curses--'O sweet Benedick! God give
  PROSPERO.  [Aside]  The Duke of Milan
    For no name fits thy nature but thy own!
    Desires your Highness' company.
    Live regist'red upon our brazen tombs,
    Believe it better than reportingly.                    Exit.
    And pity to the general wrong of Rome-
  O therefore love be of thyself so wary,

    Shall Rome stand under one man's awe? What, Rome?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE

    She seemingly obedient likewise hath
    Are you acquainted with the difference
    Of her own clime, complexion, and degree,
    With wealth enough, and young and beauteous;
    A lack of Timon's aid, hath sense withal
    The ballad is very pitiful, and as true.
     These dreadful summoners grace. I am a man
  YORK. So shall my virtue be his vice's bawd;
    By need and accident. What train?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Mistress, 'respice finem,' respect your end; or
    Some bloody passion shakes your very frame.
    Even in the matter of mine innocence;
     Preferment falls on him that cuts him off.
    I come to visit the afflicted spirits
    Is all thy comfort shut in Gloucester's tomb?
    That he thereby may have a likely guess
    On pain to be found false and recreant,
    sceptre, and this cushion my, crown.
  Unthrifty loveliness why dost thou spend,
    For young hot colts being rag'd do rage the more.
    Injurious Hermia! most ungrateful maid!
  WILLIAM. Articles are borrowed of the pronoun, and be
    Know that the people of Rome, for whom we stand
    Never to speak to lady afterward
    Well, sir, what follows?
Enter Father Capulet, Mother, Nurse, and Servingmen,
    That raught at mountains with outstretched arms,

  ANTONIO. Where is the master, boson?
    And leave eighteen. Alas, poor princess,
    Stood in your action.
          Enter MARCIUS and TITUS LARTIUS With a trumpeter
    Have got a speeding trick to lay down ladies.

    And maintain such a quarrel openly?
    Is that old noble lady, Duchess of Norfolk.

    And how unwillingly I left the ring,
    pour in, pour in; his ambition is dry.
    Upon this shore, where you were wrecked, was landed
    were done- at such and such a sconce, at such a breach, at such a
  THURIO. Yonder is Silvia; and Silvia's mine.  

    To-morrow I shall die with mickle age.
    eight i' th' morning.
    welcome. I myself would have no power; prithee let my meat make

    And that thou mayst perceive how well I like it,
    Being a divine, a ghostly confessor,
    Upon the sobbing deer.
    To make my end too sudden. Learn, good soul,

    these two days he will be here. This is a thing that Angelo knows
                        Enter Romeo.
  MALVOLIO. 'M. O. A. I. doth sway my life.'
  And now he's there, past thought of human reason.
  STANLEY. Like to a duchess and Duke Humphrey's lady;
    To plague thee for thy foul misleading me.
    Unto the brother of your loving bride.
LUCIANA. O, soft, sir, hold you still;
    His measure duly.

    May this be wash'd in Lethe and forgotten?
    And shall be absent. Wend you with this letter.
    Honest Ventidius! You mistake my love;
    not what. Yet I was in that credit with them at that time that I
    Plac'd in contempt! Farewell, fair cruelty.             Exit
    May be a coward's whose ministers would prevail
  LADY MACBETH. What's the business,  
    And, if thou dar'st, I'll give thee remedy.
    Which to his former strength may be restored
    Were slily crept into his human powers,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  If thy name be called Luce
    Sorrow on thee and all the pack of you
    Murder in healing wounds. Then, noble partners,
    Hath rotted ere his youth attain'd a beard;
    That thou turn rascal; hadst thou wealth again
    Must end that work the ides of March begun.
    Methinks I see thee, now thou art below,
    They vented their complainings; which being answer'd,
  King. There's matter in these sighs. These profound heaves
  KING JOHN.  [To ELINOR]  So shall it be; your Grace shall stay

  SHYLOCK. This kindness will I show.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  Fool. He's mad that trusts in the tameness of a wolf, a horse's
    My rest and negligence befriends thee now,
    May call it back again. Well, believe this:
  PROCULEIUS. Cleopatra,
    Whilst you have fed upon my signories,
    Infused with a fortitude from heaven,
    Even at his feet to lay my arms and power,
Enter EGLAMOUR
  PRINCE OF MOROCCO. The first, of gold, who this inscription bears:
    Thus have I had thee as a dream doth flatter,
    rashness. Tell him we could have rebuk'd him at Harfleur, but  
    Like to the glorious sun's transparent beams,
    well a dark house and a whip as madmen do; and the reason why
  Glend. She is desperate here. A peevish self-will'd harlotry,
    So cares and joys abound, as seasons fleet.
    That all I see in you is worthy love,
    And think with wagging of your tongue to win me;
    her own?
  MOWBRAY. Why not to him in part, and to us all
    For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
    That thieves do pass on thieves? 'Tis very pregnant,
    Evermore cross'd and cross'd; nothing but cross'd!
  THERSITES. I am a bastard too; I love bastards. I am a bastard
    This seven years did not Talbot see his son;
    His crown shall be the ransom of my friend;
    Save men's opinions and my living blood
    To visit the next room, I'll presently
    And trow you what he call'd me?
    I am a gentleman.' I'll be sworn thou art;
  AENEAS. Now heavens forfend such scarcity of youth!
    wear it on both sides, like leather jerkin.
  OLD ATHENIAN. Most noble Timon, call the man before thee.

    I bear Antonio, that I follow thus
    your complexion that it was a passion of earnest.
    Doubled with thanks and service, from whose help
    Harry, withdraw thyself; thou bleedest too much.
  TIMON. Go to my steward.
   Crouch for employment. But pardon, gentles all,
    And they'll seem glorious.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. The Countess Richmond, good my Lord
    gentleman, i' faith.
    The course of it so far. There is your crown,
  Prince. I did never see such pitiful rascals.
    And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
    That, if thou conquer Rome, the benefit
    But with the aid of use.
  MRS. FORD. Shall we send that foolish carrion, Mistress
  MALVOLIO. Good fool, as ever thou wilt deserve well at my hand,
  CLEOPATRA. Good my lord-
    When thou hast hung thy advanced sword i' th' air,
    My scars can witness, dumb although they are,
    Cough, or cry "hem," if anybody come.  
    To my unfolding lend your prosperous ear,
    Till the high fever seethe your blood to froth,
    Blood and destruction shall be so in use,
                                                   Exit FASTOLFE  
  VIRGILIA. O heavens! O heavens!
  PISTOL. Ha, thou mountain-foreigner! Sir John and master
The Grecian camp. Before AGAMEMNON'S tent
    That will be given to th' loud of noise we make.
    am an old man, you should give me rest. I would to God my name
    Then is it likely thou wilt undertake  
  ANTONIO. I am a tainted wether of the flock,
  MRS. PAGE. I'll have the cudgel hallow'd and hung o'er the
    That have no use for trusting. If your master
                     2
  ULYSSES. I'll bring you to the gates.
    men's good, content with my harm; and the greatest of my pride is
                         WOODVILLE the Lieutenant speaks within]
    visitation? Come, deal justly with me. Come, come! Nay, speak.
  KING. Now, pray you, let me see it; for mine eye,  
  A JUSTICE
    Seem frosty? O, for honour of our land,
    If she be mad, as I believe no other,
  If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
    Is yet a maiden and an innocent hand,
    And hums, as who should say, "You'll rue the time
    foolery.
           Some, of violated vows
    Come, I'll convey thee through the city gate;
Enter Hamlet and Horatio.
    Among the people gather up a tenth.
    To quell the rebels and their complices.
  CYMBELINE. And thou shalt die for't.
  ULYSSES. This 'tis:
  GONZALO. How lush and lusty the grass looks! how green!
    Plainly denouncing vengeance upon John.
  As those whose beauties proudly make them cruel;
    Exactly is perform'd; but there's more work.
  BERTRAM. I have writ my letters, casketed my treasure,
    But Romeo may not. More validity,  
    And like me to the peasant boys of France,
  QUINCE. Flute, you must take Thisby on you.
    God shield us!- a lion among ladies is a most dreadful thing; for
    Call ye the warlike Talbot, for his acts
  Edg. But, by your favour,
  PETRUCHIO. Why, there's a wench! Come on, and kiss me, Kate.
    With unchaste purpose, and with oath to violate
  MESSENGER. Your honour's players, hearing your amendment,
    All may be well.                                  He kneels.
    In each eye one; swear by your double self,
    a sickness denying thee anything; a death to grant this.
    brains with billets. I will not consent to die this day, that's  
    Arthur ta'en prisoner? Divers dear friends slain?
    Fell gently down, as if they struck their friends.
    You men of Angiers, and my loving subjects-
  SEBASTIAN. Look, he's winding up the watch of his wit; by
    And rather than it shall, I will be free
    So doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle
    His eye-balls further out than when he liv'd,
    O infinite virtue, com'st thou smiling from
    I know my hour is come.
    Against my king and nephew, virtuous Henry,
    Tell me thy mind; for I have Pisa left
  PAGE. Nay, do not fly; I think we have watch'd you now.
  FIRST CITIZEN. And to make us no better thought of, a little help
  POSTHUMUS. I am, sir,  
  HOST. Let us wag, then.
  Oph. You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
    Michael, good night. Tomorrow with your earliest
  SOMERSET. Ah, Warwick, Warwick! wert thou as we are,
    And spur thee on with fun as many lies  
  PROTEUS. Cease to lament for that thou canst not help,
  ANTONY. No, Caesar, we will answer on their charge.
  Alb. Our very loving sister, well bemet.
    with her husband. Your noble Tullus Aufidius will appear well in
    In coffins from the field; and at this day
    For many men that stumble at the threshold
    Those prisoners you shall keep.
    To sleep- perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub!
  COMINIUS. O, ay, what else?

    Repairs itself by rest. Our Tarquin thus
    In storms of fortune; for in her ray and brightness
    with half Windsor at his heels, to search for such a one. I

  SHALLOW. Cousin Abraham Slender, can you love her?
    As I am clear from treason to my sovereign.
    Flock to the rebels, and their power grows strong.  
     where's my fool? I have not seen him this two days.
  APEMANTUS. E'en so thou outrun'st grace.
  ANTONIO. Ha, ha, ha!
    Hath almost ended his life's history.

    As thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
  LODOVICO. God save the worthy general!
  MENENIUS. I paint him in the character. Mark what mercy his mother
    A shower and thunder with their caps and shouts.
                            Enter a PRIEST
    Or I should breathe it so into thy body,
    Delay this marriage for a month, a week;

    spirit; for I should flout him if he writ to me. Yea, though I
    This gentleman is happily arriv'd,
    The very place puts toys of desperation,
    'Tis a commodity will lose the gloss with lying; the longer kept,
    shall Pyramus and Thisby whisper.  
            Fly away, fly away, breath,
  Ham. I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile.

    Being full of supper and distempering draughts,
  Who lets so fair a house fall to decay,
London. Cannon street
  'But quickly on this side the verdict went:
    this is a respected fellow; and his mistress is a respected
  COUNTESS. What does this knave here? Get you gone, sirrah. The
    Yet that Thy brazen gates of heaven may ope
  COSTARD. O, me!
  Pedro. Speak low if you speak love.         [Takes her aside.]
    All will be well.
  PANDARUS. Himself! Alas, poor Troilus! I would he were!
    Where is he now?
    Great business must be wrought ere noon:
    If good, why do I yield to that suggestion
    already waylaid; yourself and I will not be there; and when they
    It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
    To answer for his love, tell him from me
  TAMORA. I know not what it means; away with her!
                 Did share it.

  'Tis time, I think, to trudge, pack and be gone.
  DUMAIN. Most resolute Pompey!
              All in the morning bedtime,
    Weigh what convenience both of time and means
  SHALLOW. What, the sword and the word! Do you study
    From sleeping Hermia? I'll believe as soon  
    So may you by my dull and heavy eye,
  HELENA. O spite! O hell! I see you all are bent
  And, floating straight, obedient to the stream,
    Must bear my beating to his grave- shall join
    There's not a piece of feather in our host-

  Ham. Then saw you not his face?
    Extended Asia from Euphrates,
    For mine own part, I could be well content
    A greater power than we can contradict
  Prince. That villanous abominable misleader of youth, Falstaff,
    That is, to watch her, as we watch these kites
    And let thy Suffolk take his heavy leave.
    But dead, thy kingdom cannot buy my breath.
    That look not like the inhabitants o' the earth,
    To darkness fleet souls that fly backwards! Stand;
    How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
    And think how such an apprehension
  POINS. Very hardly upon such a subject.  
    he was outrun on Cotsall.


    Intolerable, not to be endur'd!
     Hold amity? 'Tis hard; almost impossible.  
  SILVIUS. I'll not fail, if I live.
    Had from the conversation of my thoughts

    Yet who would have suspected an ambush where I was taken?
    servants to you!  [To HELENA]  Be comfortable to my mother, your
    The sweet'st, dear'st creature's dead; and vengeance
    A meaner than myself; since I myself
    Rich in his father's honour, creeps apace
    And ample interchange of sweet discourse
    To beggarly divorcement, love him dearly,
    you and yourself and all the world know to be no petter than a
  MACBETH. Be innocent of the knowledge, dearest chuck,
    Intending deep suspicion. Ghastly looks
  PYRAMUS. O, kiss me through the hole of this vile wall.
  KING RICHARD. I do remember me: Henry the Sixth

  BAPTISTA. Is it new and old too? How may that be?
    thy speeches?
    Give me a staff of honour for mine age,  
        For the red blood reigns in the winter's pale.
    If not, he foams at mouth, and by and by
    And each of them had twenty times their power,
  Jul. I would thou hadst my bones, and I thy news.
  SLENDER. Ay, sir, you shall find me reasonable; if it be so, I
    And therefore put I on the countenance
PINCH. Give me your hand, and let me feel your pulse.
  VERNON. Then, for the truth and plainness of the case,
    And she's obedient, as you say, obedient,
    What know, believe; and what I can redress,
    Here sheathe thy sword; I'll pardon thee my death.
    I urged you further; then you scratch'd your head,
    said, for prunes; and having but two in the dish, as I said,  
  Laer. I thank you. Keep the door.      [Exeunt his Followers.]
    And sundry blessings hang about his throne
    myself, who, I myself will bear witness, is praiseworthy. And now
  Fool. This cold night will turn us all to fools and madmen.
  PAROLLES. Let me see. Marry, ill to like him that ne'er it likes.
  POET. to be thought of him? Does the rumour hold for true that he's
  FIRST CITIZEN. Very well, and could be content to give him good
    example my digression by some mighty precedent. Boy, I do love  

    Of great Apollo's priest; and that since then
  WOLSEY. Madam, this is a mere distraction;
    be our messenger to this paltry knight.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.         Exeunt.
    From the true seed of honour! and how much honour

  MRS. PAGE.  [Aside to MRS. FORD]  Heard you that?
                                  [Giving her hand to POLIXENES]
  WINCHESTER  [Aside]  So help me God, as I intend it not!
    capable of things serious, thou must know the King is full of
    friendship.'
                                               Spreads his arms.
    And there cut off thy most ungracious head,
    Honour and virtue, and convers'd with such
     It is no vicious blot, murther, or foulness,
  2. Watch. And one Deformed is one of them. I know him; 'a wears a
  SECOND WITCH. Fillet of a fenny snake,
  BANQUO. To the selfsame tune and words. Who's here?
  CELIA. But is all this for your father?
    That saidst I begg'd the empire at thy hands.
    And that your Grace hath screen'd and stood between
                Will cause Demetrius to awake.
    And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine-  
Athens and the neighbouring woods
  AARON. What, must it, nurse? Then let no man but I
    All the remain is, welcome.                           Exeunt
    And leave the world no copy.
            Whose father then, as men report
    That she preparedly may frame herself
    My oil-dried lamp and time-bewasted light
  '"All my offences that abroad you see
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    If thou receive me for thy warlike mate.
    Where but by a chance a silver drop hath fall'n,
    His folly to the mettle of my speech?
  SERVANT. My lord?

    I have known my husband; yet my husband
  TIMON. Have I once liv'd to see two honest men?
             Shall disturb this hallowed house.
          Sing willow, willow, willow.

    Make fearful musters and prepar'd defence,
    I never thought it possible or likely.
    the humour of forty fancies prick'd in't for a feather; a
           Enter Claudio and Beatrice, Leonato, Hero.
    a league between my good man and he! Is your wife at
    Let us alone to guard Corioli.
    Such troops of citizens to come to him.  
  That is so vexed with watching and with tears?
    That time best fits the work we have in hand.
               [Drum; trumpets sound; a piece goes off [within].
  JUSTICE. Lord Angelo is severe.
    The Wood began to move.
    Defiance, traitors, hurl we in your teeth.
  CAESAR. Sit.

    And let your father make her the assurance,
  GREMIO. Yes, I know thee to be Signior Lucentio.
  SOMERSET. How now, Sir William! Whither were you sent?  
    Become a dog that's mad. Then is it sin
    So many thousand times? Go, counsellor!
    To season love, that of it doth not taste!
    My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
    word? Is it a true thing?
    I that do bring the news made not the match.

  HELENA. O, I am out of breath in this fond chase!
    Until his army be dismiss'd from him.
  WARWICK. How now, fair lords! What fare? What news abroad?
SCENE II.

  POINS. Come, you virtuous ass, you bashful fool, must you be
         like a warrior; leading in his hand an ancient
  Fal. Their points being broken-
    That words seem'd buried in my sorrow's grave.


  MRS. FORD. How near is he, Mistress Page?
     hundred; only I do not like the fashion of your garments. You'll
    In summer, where the ways are fair enough.
    From treason's secret knife and traitor's rage
  SOMERSET. Well, well, come on; who else?
    Come, Kate, sit down; I know you have a stomach.
    Thou wouldst be fee'd, I see, to make me sport;
  CORIOLANUS. Direct me, if it be your will,
  BANQUO. New honors come upon him,
  MENAS. No, to my cabin.
  STEPHANO. Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in's tale,
    Just as my master had direction.

  Did call me brother.  [To LUCIANA]  What I told you then,
  LENNOX. Or so much as it needs
    What men are you?
    Hath put himself in arms. The adverse winds,
  EVANS. Here is Got's plessing, and your friend, and Justice
  CLOWN. Alack, poor soul! thou hast need of more rags to lay on  
    Lovers can see to do their amorous rites
     Lov'd as my father, as my master follow'd,
    Or we will plague thee with incessant wars.
  VALENTINE. I mean that her beauty is exquisite, but her favour

  DERCETAS. I am call'd Dercetas;
    But 'tis usurp'd. Alack the heavy day,
  HELEN. She shall have it, my lord, if it be not my Lord Paris.
    An earnest advocate to plead for him.
    O, pardon that I name them! Your high self,
  FIRST MURDERER. A man, as you are.
  PANDARUS. I do not care whether you do or no. She's a fool to stay
    Behold, these are the tribunes of the people,
    The office and devotion of their view
    piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in
    And you, my lords- methinks you do not well
    Shake off slumber, and beware.
    Erect his statue and worship it,
    But art thou not advis'd he took some care
    This look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven,
  Hot. And I can teach thee, coz, to shame the devil-
    Freely command, thou wouldst have plung'd thyself
    While counterfeit supposes blear'd thine eyne.
  King. It shall be so.
    particular additions: he is as valiant as a lion, churlish as the
  CAPTAIN. It is perchance that you yourself were saved.
    His subjects to oppression and contempt,  
    of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
  PATROCLUS. Thy lord, Thersites. Then tell me, I pray thee, what's
  CAMILLO. Well, my lord,
ACT III. SCENE I.
    He hath got his friend with child.
Enter KING JOHN, QUEEN ELINOR, PEMBROKE, ESSEX, SALISBURY, and others,
    Solicit for it straight.
    At Coventry, upon Saint Lambert's day.
and SIR THOMAS LOVELL, with others. The CARDINAL places himself
    If I may ever know thou dost but sigh
    for me, you rogue! You stand upon your honour! Why,
    Thou robb'st me of a moiety. He was my son;
  TIMON. Look who comes here; will you be chid?
  Dog. This is the end of the charge: you, constable, are to present
    To see me first as I have now. Pisanio! Man!
  Laer. Come, one for me.
  BEROWNE. What time o' day?
                                       Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
    Would one day stamp upon me. 'T has been done:
    Unto the poor King Reignier, whose large style
  BERTRAM. I heard not of it before.
    You have too much respect upon the world;
    Couple it with something; make it a word and a blow.
    CUPID
  ARMADO. By heart and in heart, boy.
    I'll bear your logs the while; pray give me that;

ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. 'Tis true, my liege; this ring I had of her.
    What I have done that misbecame my place,
  CLOWN. Good madonna, why mourn'st thou?
    And more inconstant than the wind, who wooes
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  Bard. I Will, Captain. Farewell.                         Exit.
    Since you lack virtue, I will lose a husband-
    And speak his very heart.
    That love's keen arrows make.
  BEROWNE. O, if the streets were paved with thine eyes,
    And mark what object did present itself.
London. A street
  KATHERINA. I never saw a better fashion'd gown,
  GONZALO. Upon mine honour, sir, I heard a humming,
    If two such murderers as yourselves came to you,
    The moon, methinks, looks with a wat'ry eye;
    Than all the rest, discharg'd me with these words:  
    Let come what comes; only I'll be reveng'd
    Meet to be sent on errands. Is it fit,
                  Enter CHATILLON
    Come and take choice of all my library,  
    Here feel we not the penalty of Adam,
      good Queen!
    to him again, and he's yours.
    Do you know me?
    complement, and ceremony of it. But are you sure of your
    Her father keeps from all access of suitors,
  CONSTANCE. O, upon my knee,
    But fresher than before; and, as thou bad'st me,
  MONTANO. To the platform, masters; come, let's set the watch.
    clothes? Come away.
  SON. Good grandam, tell us, is our father dead?
  BURGUNDY. Pardon the frankness of my mirth, if I answer you for
    creature of bombast? How long is't ago, Jack, since thou sawest
    Banish'd the new-made bridegroom from this city;
  KING. And I mine too,.good Lord!
    peace.
         Exeunt BIONDELLO, TRANIO, and PEDANT, as fast as may be
    would have gone to the truth of his words; but they do no
  Pol. What is the matter, my lord?
  Jul. What's he that follows there, that would not dance?
    Come, cords; come, nurse. I'll to my wedding bed;
    Most busy, least when I do it.
Enter LAUNCELOT GOBBO
    shall find us in our salt-water girdle. If you beat us out of it,
  TROILUS. This she? No; this is Diomed's Cressida.
    Which should not find a ground to root upon
    His power went out in such distractions as
  LONGAVILLE. It did move him to passion, and therefore let's hear
  LUCIUS' SERVANT. Here's mine.
  WARWICK. Farewell, sweet lords; let's meet at Coventry.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  ARVIRAGUS. One sand another
  DUKE. Mended again. The matter- proceed.
  They must be bound, and laid in some dark room.
    snowballs for pills to cool the reins. Call her in.
Capulet's orchard.
    Unto the legions on the other side.             Loud alarum.
    Benedick.
    O mercy, God! what masquing stuff is here?
    a nay-word how to know one another. I come to her in
    What's the matter? How now!
    And leave me here in wretchedness behind ye?
    Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
  MENENIUS. What work's, my countrymen, in hand? Where go you
    A thousand men have broke their fasts to-day
          Come place him here by me-
                 GENERAL OF THE FRENCH, and others
  JULIA. Ay, that change is the spite.  
Rome and the neighbourhood; Corioli and the neighbourhood; Antium

    Long live King Richard, England's worthy King!
  Fal. Embowell'd? If thou embowel me to-day, I'll give you leave to
    Madam, 's enough for you, and too much too.
  SHALLOW. Master Page, I am glad to see you; much good do
  HASTINGS. O bloody Richard! Miserable England!
    Without the which a soldier and his sword
  King. Part them! They are incens'd.

    Forthwith we'll send him hence to Brittany,
  BEROWNE. O, rhymes are guards on wanton Cupid's hose:
    And Humphrey Duke of Gloucester scarce himself,
  RICHMOND. Good night, good Captain Blunt. Come,
    Shall show itself more openly hereafter.
  GUIDERIUS. A most incivil one. The wrongs he did me
    I have done penance for contemning Love,
    And not my brother.  
  And having thee, of all men's pride I boast.
    Our nineteen legions thou shalt hold by land,  
  ANNE. No more than with my soul I mourn for yours.
  SILIUS. Where is he now?
    Quiet yourselves, I pray, and be at peace.
  Queen. Calmly, good Laertes.
    Than our fore-goers. The mere word's a slave,
    Thy maiden sword.
    My lord your son had only but the corpse,
    In this my light deliverance, I have spoke
    pridge.
                            Exit Lady Macduff, crying "Murther!"
    That living mortals, hearing them, run mad-
  
    If ever we are nature's, these are ours; this thorn
  The manner of my pity-wanting pain.
    This sudden mischief never could have fall'n.
    Clamours of hell, be measures to our pomp?
  HORNER. Hold, Peter, hold! I confess, I confess treason.
Scene II.
    Who, having some advantage on Octavius,
    Probal to thinking, and indeed the course
    And little recks to find the way to heaven
    Took it in snuff; and still he smil'd and talk'd;
    While other sports are tasking of their minds,
  BIANCA. Leave you! wherefore?
    And after seem to chide 'em. This shall make
  CLEOPATRA. Ah, dear, if I be so,
    love.  
    is, in contempt of question, her hand.
     Which nor our nature nor our place can bear,-
    him, or else we are all undone.


    Set a fair fashion on our entertainment,
  QUEEN. No, my love, I should not mourn, but die for thee.
  DESDEMONA.                       How? unlawfully?
    and butter'd, and give them to a dog for a new-year's gift.
  WESTMORELAND. My sovereign lord, cheer up yourself, look up.
    And made an evening at the noontide prick.
    slash; I'll do it by the sword. I bepray you, let me borrow my

    The King of Naples and Jerusalem;
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Not that Adam that kept the Paradise,
    Lose and neglect the creeping hours of time;
    matter in the ditty, yet the note was very untuneable.
    Of one I danc'd withal.  

    Thou must restore.
  MONTAGUE. Montague, Montague, for Lancaster!
  HUME. Jesus preserve your royal Majesty!  
  Enter Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, Balthasar, and John the Bastard.
    Down with it flat, take the bridge quite away
    Come, Warwick, come, good Warwick, go with me;
                                [Throws the meat, etc., at them]
    Make trivial price of serious things we have,
    Of both is flatter'd; but he neither loves,
    And durst commend a secret to your ear
    Writ to your Grace from th' Duke of Burgundy.
                               He spieth Falstaff on the ground.
by William Shakespeare
                        with others
    I prithee, Lucio, do me this kind service:
      him,

    admiral, thou bearest the lantern in the poop- but 'tis in the
    unless you repute yourself such a loser. What, man! there are

  BOLINGBROKE. I have heard her reported to be a woman of an
    That are misled upon your cousin's part;
    We have some secrets to confer about.            Exit THURIO
    I'll charm his eyes against she do appear.
    The hearing of my wife with your approach;
    For your behoof.
  So I, to find a mother and a brother,
    hereafter to leave my wife.

    And now I do bethink me, it was she
    make grand preparation for a Duke de Jamany. By my

    The ears are senseless that should give us bearing
    And braggart with my tongue! But, gentle heavens,
    And the offender granted scope of speech,
  CASSIUS. Forever and forever farewell, Brutus!
    And reason flies the object of all harm.
    The virtuous sweets,
    Or lose mine arm for't. Thou hast beat me out

    Unless thou think'st me devilish- is't not meet
    To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;  
  ROSALINE. Much in the letters; nothing in the praise.
     To noble Edmund. I know you are of her bosom.
    Now much beshrew my manners and my pride,
    The other's peace. Till then, blows, blood, and death!
    A riding suit, no costlier than would fit
  SECOND STRANGER. I tell you, denied, my lord.
    To see him shine so brisk, and smell so sweet,  
    would speak with you. He says he comes from your father.
LUCIANA. All this my sister is, or else should be.
  And will not lightly trust the messenger.
    Be in their flowing cups freshly rememb'red.
    Our human generation you shall find
    And 'twill be supper-time ere you come there.
    I met in travel toward his warlike father.
    Alarbus goes to rest, and we survive
    testimony that I have enjoy'd the dearest bodily part of your
    So loving-jealous of his liberty.
    Wish chastely and love dearly that your Dian
    I come to know your pleasure.
                device, the banquet vanishes  
    Of the divorce he'd make! The heavens hold firm
  PETRUCHIO.  [To VINCENTIO]  Why, how now, gentleman!
    Perchance, Iago, I will ne'er go home.
    I pray thee, Buckingham, go and meet him
  VIRGILIA. But had he died in the business, madam, how then?
    sir, in print. Gardon- remuneration!                    Exit
    Convinced or supplied them, cannot choose
  KEEPER. Awak'd you not in this sore agony?
    The Cardinal instantly will find employment,
  LAUNCELOT. Marry, sir, to bid my old master, the Jew, to sup
    Most shallowly did you these arms commence,

    My state is desperate for my master's love;
  Kent. I' th' mire.
                          Re-enter BIONDELLO
    my hat. Did you see my jewel?
  Prince. It may be so. If he have robb'd these men,

  EVANS. That is a good William. What is he, William, that
    is not here.
    Should have hare hearts, would they but fat their thoughts
    A freestone-colour'd hand; I verily did think
  OLIVIA. Wilt thou go to bed, Malvolio?
  ARCHBISHOP. Last night, I hear, they lay at Stony Stratford,
     The gods reward your kindness!
    But if you do, you'll make me wish a sin,
    Let this my sword report what speech forbears.
    You say that Edward is your brother's son.
    He not respects at all.- What ho, Pisanio!
  Prince. Sir John stands to his word, the devil shall have his
    Unwisely, not ignobly, have I given.
  GREY. Here come the Lords of Buckingham and Derby.
  Prince. This is the strangest fellow, brother John.
  EMILIA. I would you had never seen him!
  CINNA. No, by no means.
    The angry lords with all expedient haste.
  Other. The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand  
  FALSTAFF. We have heard the chimes at midnight, Master Shallow.
  LUCIO. Friar, thou knowest not the Duke so well as I do; he's a
                          Not poppy, nor mandragora,
    How like the Empress and her sons you are!
  FIRST APPARITION. Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth! Beware Macduff,
    That he quit being; and his gentle lady,
  PAROLLES. E'en a crow o' th' same nest; not altogether so great as
    And were there sense in his idolatry
    Greater than shows itself at the first view
    Upon that poor and broken bankrupt there?'
    I'll tell thee, Hubert, half my power this night,
    And rail upon the hostess of the house,
    In his own change, or by ill officers,
    Ten leagues beyond man's life; she that from Naples
    In piteous chase; and thus the hairy fool,
  NORTHUMBERLAND. My liege, old Gaunt commends him to your Majesty.
    Some twenty of them fought in this black strife,
    Have we march'd on without impediment;
    Whiles we enjoy it, but being lack'd and lost,
     Some that will thank you, making just report
                    and a crow of iron.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    The vaporous night approaches.
    A cockatrice hast thou hatch'd to the world,
    'This must be so.' We pray you throw to earth
    Who, as 'tis thought, by self and violent hands
    Gracious triumpher in the eyes of Rome!
    To catch the nearest way. Thou wouldst be great;  
  AGUECHEEK. And I do not-                                  Exit
    Am sure I scar'd the Dauphin and his trull,
    Shall draw this brief into as huge a volume.
    If she be curst, it is for policy,
    The place which I have feasted, does it now,
  FABIAN. Nay, patience, or we break the sinews of our plot.
  FALSTAFF. Well, I Will visit her. Tell her so; and bid her
    That robb'd my soldiers of their heated spleen,
    Whom thus we stray to find, and the sea mocks
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. The King! Who's that?
  CASCA. Bid every noise be still. Peace yet again!
    The second, silver, which this promise carries:
    Maintain my opinion.
  BARDOLPH. Come, shall I make you two friends? We must to France
  KING. No words!
    What say you to that?
    my subject, and he shall not suffer indignity.  
    Immediately to us.             Exeunt Lucilius and Titinius.
  PAGE. I am glad to see you, good Master Slender.
  KING RICHARD. It boots thee not to be compassionate;
    If you but knew how you the purpose cherish,
    under a bush, like a beggar? Get you to church and have a good
  EXETER. Away! for vengeance comes along with them.
    by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.

  GLOUCESTER. He plies her hard; and much rain wears the marble.
    And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
SCENE 2
    I have no further with you.' Was not this mockery?
  CINNA, a poet
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    And from his Holiness use all your power
  KING HENRY. This note doth tell me of ten thousand French
  KING RICHARD. Then call them to our presence: face to face
    Didst thou ever see me do such a trick?
    The secret mischiefs that I set abroach
    Yet I suppose him virtuous, know him noble,
     Call by thy trumpet. He that dares approach,
    methinks I could not die anywhere so contented as in the King's
    Lo, ere I can repeat this curse again,


    War, death, or sickness, did lay siege to it,

  Prince John of Lancaster, son to the King.
    mince.                                     Exit MRS. QUICKLY
  DUKE.                     Why, what's the matter?
    Salisbury, cheer thy spirit with this comfort,
    And perish ye, with your audacious prate!
    It were a fault to snatch words from my tongue.
    I would give it every foot to have this face!  

    sweet. Nay, you shall fight your hearts out ere I part you. The
    And Titus Lartius, a most valiant Roman,
  LUCIO. Why, 'tis not amiss, Pompey. Farewell; go, say I sent thee
  QUEEN. Why, now is Henry King, and Margaret Queen,
  ROSALIND. Alas, poor shepherd! searching of thy wound,
    And I not have it, 'twere a paper lost,
           Nothing of him that doth fade
  EMILIA. Nor ever heard, nor ever did suspect.
    If not, our swords shall plead it in the field.
    deceiv'd me like a double-meaning prophesier.
  2. Watch. Well, sir.
            The other found out there.
  MESSALA. Nor nothing in your letters writ of her?

  Osw. Prithee, if thou lov'st me, tell me.
  GLOUCESTER. To say the truth, this fact was infamous
    son.
    The bigger bulk it shows. Hence, bashful cunning!

  MRS. PAGE. Your husband's coming hither, woman, with all
  Ros. Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
    Fie on her! See how beastly she doth court him!
    So horridly to shake our disposition
  SECOND WATCHMAN. To-morrow then, belike, shall be the day,

    Not to come off, in his displeasure.
    The prime man of the state? I pray you tell me  
    -well fare thee well.  
  SEBASTIAN. Ay, or very falsely pocket up his report.
    rapier.
    We cannot fight for love as men may do;
  DUKE. It lies much in your holding up. Haste you speedily to
  CITIZEN. He is, and feasts the nobles of the state

  HECTOR. Is this Achilles?
  BURGUNDY. Speak on; but be not over-tedious.
    Bishop of Exeter, his elder brother,
  ANNE. What is it?
  MARCUS. O Publius, is not this a heavy case,
    What instance gives Lord Warwick for his vow?
  Ham. Bid the players make haste, [Exit Polonius.] Will you two
  Edm. Here stood he in the dark, his sharp sword out,
    To th' ensuing age abhorr'd.' Speak to me, son.
    He came not back. He is or ta'en or slain.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM

    For, did I think thou wouldst not quickly die,


     Thy flesh and bones. Howe'er thou art a fiend,
    Than thou, the shadow of succession;
  LUCIO. Carnally, she says.
  CLOWN. Then put up your pipes in your bag, for I'll away.
    Confin'd in all she has, her monument,
  EGLAMOUR. Fear not. The forest is not three leagues off;
    We must suggest the people in what hatred
    Who, with a body fill'd and vacant mind,
         'Tis merry in hall when beards wag an;
    Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!

    A bed-swerver, even as bad as those
  POSTHUMUS. How, how? Another?
     And hold our lives in mercy.- Oswald, I say!
    It is our safety, and we must embrace  
  PERDITA. O Lady Fortune,
    How that might change his nature, there's the question.
  SECOND LORD. None in the world; but return with an invention, and
  Corn. What trumpet's that?
  GAUNT. Methinks I am a prophet new inspir'd,
    Farewell. Our countrymen are gone and fled,
              That I sleeping here was found
                They that reap must sheaf and bind,
  Cheered and checked even by the self-same sky:
  DEMETRIUS. Madam, depart at pleasure; leave us here.
    More guarded than his fellows'; see it done.
  SHALLOW. Save you, Master Doctor Caius!
    Look'd wond'ring each at others.
    of mine. Wilt thou serve me?
  LORENZO. Your husband is at hand; I hear his trumpet.
Juliet's chamber.
    great quantity. 'Tis said he gave unto his steward a mighty sum.
    But, Audrey, there is a youth here in the forest lays claim to
  OLIVER. Is it even so? Begin you to grow upon me? I will physic
    So I had nothing known. O, now forever
     I am a very foolish fond old man,
                                                    Exit SERVANT
  GAUNT. I thank my liege that in regard of me
  Be wise as thou art cruel, do not press
    then, in your paper?
  LADY. Madam, we'll dance.
    should; he cannot creep into a halfpenny purse nor into
  SHALLOW. I thank thee with all my heart, kind Master Bardolph.
    There's not a whittle in th' unruly camp
Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.
    To me can life be no commodity.
  MARIA. Get him to say his prayers, good Sir Toby, get him to pray.
  PROTEUS. How! let me see. Why, this is the ring I gave to Julia.
  GRUMIO. Welcome, you!- how now, you!- what, you!- fellow, you!- and
  As Philomel in summer's front doth sing,
     Which, in the tender of a wholesome weal,  

    to bed after midnight is to go to bed betimes. Does not our lives
    I will come last. 'Tis like he'll question me
    Tend'ring my ruin and assail'd of none,
Enter Sampson and Gregory (with swords and bucklers) of the house of Capulet.
    musty.

    As from a blushing handmaid, to his Highness;
    Which he did wave against my throat, I have ta'en
    More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
    beds, and do all myself-
  BARNARDINE, a dissolute prisoner
    Except mine own name; that some whirlwind bear
  FRENCHMAN. Sir, you o'errate my poor kindness. I was glad I did
    Tut, I have done a thousand dreadful things
    Here's a young lad fram'd of another leer.
  BRUTUS. They stand, and would have parley.
  West. Come, my lord, I'll lead you to your tent.
    Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy.
  Ham. There's neer a villain dwelling in all Denmark
    Do even drag me homeward; which to hinder
  EXETER. The Dauphin crowned king! all fly to him!
  KING HENRY. O Kate, nice customs curtsy to great kings. Dear Kate,

    From me far off, with others all too near.

    Should censure thus on lovely gentlemen.
    To offices of tender courtesy.

  Ghost. So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
    I am as able and as fit as thou
                     9
  Gon. Marry, your manhood mew!
Enter COUNTESS, LAFEU, and CLOWN
    His looks I fear, and his intents I doubt.        [Retires.]

    Come down upon us with a mighty power,
    That hath beside well in his person wrought  

  ORLANDO. And I for Rosalind.
  DUKE. He professes to have received no sinister measure from his
    And hath detain'd me all my flow'ring youth

    mean mischief, and break a foul gap into the matter, he makes the
              And merrily hent the stile-a;

  Giving him aid, my verse astonished.
  SIR JOHN FASTOLFE

    Would I were dead, so you did live again!

LUCIANA. Fie, brother, how the world is chang'd with you!
  COBWEB. And I.
  TROILUS. Good brother, come you hither;
     Who were the opposites of this day's strife.
  JUNO. How does my bounteous sister? Go with me
The First Part of King Henry the Sixth
    'Tis strange to think how much King John hath lost
            [The GHOSTS vanish. RICHARD starts out of his dream]
  Go home with it, and please your wife withal;
    Which in the day of battle tire thee more  
    of the oven, and the baking; nay, you must stay the cooling too,
    Most mighty prince, my Lord Northumberland,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    O'ertake me if thou canst; I scorn thy strength.
  ANNE. Why, that was he.
  DUMAIN. Proceeded well, to stop all good proceeding!
  CAMILLO. It is in mine authority to command
  Or I'll attach you by this officer.
  Reg. If it be true, all vengeance comes too short
  ANTONIO. In sooth, I know not why I am so sad.
    Go put on thy defences.
  Ber. Who's there.?

ACT II. SCENE I.
    His good sword in his hand.
  AGAMEMNON. Princes,
  GLOUCESTER. Say, then, my peace is made.
    send for his master with a pursuivant presently. We'll hear more
    Are cast away and sunk on Goodwin Sands.
    And thankfully rest debtor for the first.
    And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
    Shepherdesses
    Confound themselves with working. Learn this, Thomas,
    I'll ride your horse as well as I ride you.

    Then have I reason to be fond of grief.
  PLEBEIANS. It shall be so, it shall be so! Let him away!
    Shall be accomplish'd without contradiction.  
    And e'en as if your lord should wear rich jewels
    Dost thou hear?
    This tribute from us, we were free. Caesar's ambition-
    His peace with Rome? What is that peace to me?
                     Enter four or five Players.
    particulars of my life.
  CLOWN. This cannot be but a great courtier.
    Would you, the supervisor, grossly gape on?
    Which we have noted in you to your kindred
    Exceeds man's might; that dwells with gods above.
    Look, what will serve is fit. 'Tis once, thou lovest,
  Towards this afflicted fancy fastly drew;
    Unless abroad they purchase great alliance?  
    With sore distraction. What I have done
  CASSIUS. This hill is far enough. Look, look, Titinius:
    And that our drift look through our bad performance.
  CLIFFORD. Nor should thy prowess want praise and esteem
    this. Your lion, that holds his poleaxe sitting on a close-stool,
    Is there division 'twixt my lord and Cassio?
                        Re-enter LUCETTA
    So soon as you arrive, shall clear that doubt.
    For I must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.
  ANTONIO. If you will not murder me for my love, let me be your
  LUCIO. What, is't murder?
    The day shall not be up so soon as I
  LYSANDER. I will be with thee straight.
    Lord Mortimer of Scotland hath sent word
    Were he to stand for consul, never would he
    Did grace our hollow parting with a tear.
    O judgement, thou art fled to brutish beasts,
    And crows are fatted with the murrion flock;
Enter JULIA and LUCETTA
    hard condition for a maid to consign to.
    Will give thee all the world.
    My tongue cleave to my roof within my mouth,

  CLOWN. By'r lady, sir, and some dogs will catch well.
  Ham. Why?
  KING JOHN. Up higher to the plain, where we'll set forth
  COUNTESS. 'Tis past, my liege;
  CELIA. You know my father hath no child but I, nor none is like to
    Then I perceive that will be verified
    Have I in such a prison.
    'S blood!
     The which he lacks. That to provoke in him
  NORFOLK. Let's in;
              THE EPILOGUE.
    her; writ to my lady mother I am returning; entertain'd my
    And to my state grew stranger, being transported
    Proclaim'd at market crosses, read in churches,
  CAESAR. Let his shames quickly
    A meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew.
    Upon your charter and your city's freedom.
    And live upon the vapor of a dungeon,
    A ragged and forestall'd remission.
    The Duke shall grant me justice. I do wonder,
    And that a winged Mercury did bear;
    sense.
  Then can no horse with my desire keep pace,
                  CAMBRIDGE, GREY, and attendants

  ANTIGONUS. I swear to do this, though a present death
    He were mine enemy? What friend of mine
    And utter ruin of the house of York.
    Bless him at home in peace, whilst I from far
    Which well I am assur'd I have not done-
  BASTARD. Here's a good world! Knew you of this fair work?
    And I, hence fleeting, here remain with thee.
  ORLANDO. And why not the swift foot of Time? Had not that been as
  TROILUS. Let it not be believ'd for womanhood.
Athens and a wood near it
    the Florentine?

    That this his love was an eternal plant
    You have not sought her help, of whose soft grace
      With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
    prophesy so.
                 Enter DUCHESS aloft, followed by HUME
    Digest it with a custom, I should blush
    And have prevail'd as much on him as you.
  DICK. I desire no more.
    Have at it with you.
  MENTEITH nobleman of Scotland
    Deny thy father and refuse thy name!
    Who they shall be that straight shall post to Ludlow.  
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  QUEEN MARGARET. Lords, knights, and gentlemen, what I should say
  THERSITES. There's Ulysses and old Nestor-whose wit was mouldy ere
    The armourers accomplishing the knights,
  SON. I'll bear thee hence, where I may weep my fill.
    To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
  SLENDER. I love the sport well; but I shall as soon quarrel at
    sing it in the latter end of a play, before the Duke.
  HELENA. How do you mean?
  MACBETH. Prithee, peace!
    You have been factious one against the other.
    Sticks me at heart. Sir, you have well deserv'd;
    It will be well.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  HOST, where Julia lodges in Milan
  LONGAVILLE. Look how you butt yourself in these sharp mocks!
    And by a stranger! No, he hath enjoy'd her.
    Shalt stir up in Suffolk, Norfolk, and in Kent,

                          Enter a MESSENGER
                        Enter Cassio and Iago.
    Will make me sleep again; and then, in dreaming,
  CALCHAS. You have a Troyan prisoner call'd Antenor,
        How that a life was but a flower,
    But fear the sword, like me, he'll scarcely look on't.
  Man. I do beseech you, sir, have patience.
    Brother, we will proclaim you out of hand;  
    We'll light upon some settled low content.
    It must needs wither; I'll smell it on the tree.      Kisses her.
  Mer. A bawd, a bawd, a bawd! So ho!  
    Have you consider'd of my speeches? Know
    him.
    Is this Talbot, so much fear'd abroad
    the insinuating nod and be off to them most counterfeitly. That
    Hath yielded up his body to the grave;
    rememb'red of it, the Welshmen did good service in garden where
    But come, my lord; and with a heavy heart,
    turquoise; I had it of Leah when I was a bachelor; I would not
ACT IV. SCENE I.
    hast tired thyself in base comparisons, hear me speak but this.
    name is Ford.
  BASTARD. Our country manners give our betters way.
  King. What dost thou mean by this?  
    You logger-headed and unpolish'd grooms!
    And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd
    Until you see her die again; for then
    Where is thy husband now? Where be thy brothers?
    Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
  HORTENSIO. Sir, you say well, and well you do conceive;


  ARMADO. Gentlemen and soldiers, pardon me; I will not combat in my  
    Out of my sight!
     Hast practis'd on man's life. Close pent-up guilts,
    Than twenty times your stop. But, O vain boast!
             A horse and a man

    Though he had twinn'd with me, both at a birth,
  PAGE. The music is come, sir.
    To press before thy father to a grave?
  AUFIDIUS. My lords, when you shall know- as in this rage,

  Why should he live, now nature bankrupt is,
Scene IV.
    direction till thy death. Then if she that lays thee out says
                                                         Exeunt.
                       Enter a MESSENGER
    Thou, Richard, shalt to the Duke of Norfolk
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    His cold thin drink out of his leather bottle,
    It shall become to serve all hopes conceiv'd,
    This done, he took the bride about the neck,
  EROS. Farewell, great chief. Shall I strike now?
    Shall ever take alive the noble Brutus;
    door and go along with us.
ACT I. SCENE 1.
                                        Exeunt Othello and Desdemona.
Enter TITUS and MARCUS
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  VINCENTIO. 'Tis a good hearing when children are toward.
  KING RICHARD. Well, but o'clock?
    Patch grief with proverbs, make misfortune drunk

    Sad sighs, deep groans, nor silver-shedding tears,  
    Falls into forfeit; he arrests him on it,
    babe truly begotten; and the King shall live without an heir, if
  The summer's flower is to the summer sweet,
    A fuller blast ne'er shook our battlements.
    For this night's watching.
     And by the happy hollow of a tree
    He would himself have been a soldier.
    Must ask my child forgiveness!
  CRESSIDA. O, you shall be expos'd, my lord, to dangers
    Of fruitful land, all which shall be her jointure.
  SPEED. 'Item: She is not to be kiss'd fasting, in respect of her
    Let him fear this; for it will come to pass
    With variable complexions, all agreeing
  ANTONY. I have offended reputation-
  SHALLOW. Four of which you please.
    Sir Humphrey Stafford and his brother's death
    Than I myself, poor man.
    And take thou this!' O thoughts of men accurs'd!
    My date of life out for his sweet life's loss.
    Of author's pen or actor's voice, but suited
    Chide me no more. I'll mountebank their loves,
at the other, with drums and trumpets
    Hath suffered under praise.
    Is my strict fast-I mean my children's looks;
           'Gainst knaves and thieves men shut their gate,
  EROS. Turn from me then that noble countenance,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  MONTAGUE. Comfort, my lord; and so I take my leave.
    Come, enter with us. Ladies, you deserve
    Harm not yourself with your vexation.
    Unwilling to outlive the good that did it;

  PANDARUS. You depend upon him, I mean?

  BRUTUS. Why, farewell, Portia. We must die, Messala.
    Dost thou so hunger for mine empty chair
    Ne'er heard I of a warlike enterprise
    In forty minutes.                                  Exit PUCK
  CLOWN. How now! Canst stand?
    with thine!
    and a boy yet, till my mother be dead. But what though?
    Our Rome hath such a soldier.'
    Who had the world as my confectionary;
    Strike up the drum.

    Our separation so abides and flies
  BRUTUS. Why?  
    Who hath not seen them- even with those wings

    flies, these fashion-mongers, these pardona-mi's, who stand so
    Thou hast the odds of me; therefore no more.
    If ever she leave Troilus! Time, force, and death,
    That's curdied by the frost from purest snow,  
    By us, a pair of kings. Let's from this place.
  BEROWNE. Nay, then, two treys, an if you grow so nice,
  And art confederate with a damned pack
    Though now you have no sea-cap on your head.
    Nor know I you by voice or any feature.
    greatest admiration in the universal world, when the true and  
    Of one persuaded well of.
    without bidding.
    She shall undo her credit with the Moor.
    Before the expiration of thy time,
    May walk again. If such thing be, thy mother
  Of vile confederates. Along with them
    You give away heaven's vows, and those are mine;
  SHALLOW. Death is certain. Is old Double of your town living yet?
  QUINCE. 'Odious'- odorous!
    That, when they shall be open'd, black Macbeth
    hour be off; thy mistress enforced; thy garments cut to pieces
    Till you hear further from me.
    for the old women were all dead. Then is there here one Master
    Cried, "Cursed fate that gave thee to the Moor!"
    Supply me with the habit, and instruct me
    I'll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning.
    We let the people know't.
    These boys know little they are sons to th' King,
    blushing? Wherefore blush you now? What a maidenly man-at-arms
    'O, Jesus bless us, he is born with teeth!'
  KING. It is so varied too, for it was proclaimed virgin.
    he gets more of her than sharp words, let it lie on my head.  
    Wherein I had no stroke of mischief in it?
    and my sister no sooner met but they look'd; no sooner look'd but
                                         Exeunt QUEEN and LADIES
    received them and returned me expectations and comforts of sudden
    As the ripe revenue and due of birth,
    And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!
    Will so your accusation overweigh
    And therefore haste I to the Parliament,
              Enter the QUEEN, POSTHUMUS, and IMOGEN
  EUPHRONIUS. He says so.
    To York Place, where the feast is held.
    To see thy son and heir more early down.
  HORTENSIO. Yet read the gamut of Hortensio.
  COSTARD. Then will she get the upshoot by cleaving the pin.

    And then to dinner. You are passing welcome,
    Therefore, to th' war!
    That suffer in exposure, let us meet
    Should perish by the sword! And I myself,
                    Enter ARTHUR
    Gone already!
    That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep?
    I grant him part; but then, in his Armenia
    all compass- out of all reasonable compass, Sir John.
          Now my charms are all o'erthrown,
    Prosper our colours in this dangerous fight!          Exeunt
  To bear the extremity of dire mishap!
    No scope of nature, no distemper'd day,


    I knew thou wouldst be his death! O, poor gentleman! A plague
     As thou my sometime daughter.
    For bloody power to rush upon your peace.

    Be jolly, lords.
    Sweet sink, sweet sewer!
    Rosalind; so, adieu.
    Dare you presume to harbour wanton lines?
  TROILUS. Even such a passion doth embrace my bosom.
    With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
  CASSIO. Dear general, I never gave you cause.
    again, sir- shall we sow the headland with wheat?

                          Enter PISTOL
    For truth, for duty, and for loyalty.
    Our coronation. Lords, prepare yourselves.
    I pray you, have in mind where we must meet.  
    And never stir assailants.
    Hipparchus, my enfranched bondman, whom  
  KATHERINA. I know it is the moon.  
    Or sack this country with a mutiny.                   Exeunt
    Nay, and you shall hear some.  [To BRUTUS] Will you be gone?
  Pedro. What's the matter?
    By th' northern blasts twice o'er.
    grace.            [The LION tears THISBY'S Mantle, and exit]
    Heard, not regarded- seen, but with such eyes  

  MRS. PAGE. Adieu, good Sir Hugh.                 Exit SIR HUGH
    Shaking the bloody fingers of thy foes,

    I never hated thee; I have seen thee fight,
  ANGELO. Nay, I'll not warrant that; for I can speak
    Had sent to me first, but for my mind's sake;
    As due to love as thoughts and dreams and sighs,
    of mine come to town tells me there is three  
  GRATIANO.                I am glad to see you.
    Hath made us forward. But, my gentle queen,  
    Each heart in Rome does love and pity you;
  Even for the service that long since I did thee,
    I am no pilot; yet, wert thou as far
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    And, princely peers, a happy time of day!
  ARMADO. Define, define, well-educated infant.
  PEDANT. Sir, at the farthest for a week or two;
  TAMORA. Where is thy brother Bassianus?
  Hot. Zounds! how has he the leisure to be sick
  Bora. If you would know your wronger, look on me.
    Nor grieve that Rouen is so recovered.
  TITINIUS. These tidings would well comfort Cassius.
  ANTONY. Why, friends, you go to do you know not what.
  WARWICK. This door is open; he is gone this way.
    Than as your honour and as your renown,

    Had grac'd the tender temples of my child;
  GHOSTS.  [To RICHARD]  Dream on thy cousins smothered in
    But whilst this muddy vesture of decay
    pocky corses now-a-days that will scarce hold the laying in, I
    Hath look'd upon my passes. Then, good Prince,
    Since I may say 'Now lie I like a king.'
     To quarrel with your great opposeless wills,
Enter two OFFICERS, to lay cushions, as it were in the Capitol
    No; Publius and Sempronius, you must do it;
    O, now let Richmond and Elizabeth,
    I'll murder all his wardrop, piece by piece,
                                                [Trumpets sound]
    So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
    made by man and woman after this downright way of creation. Is it
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  Since mine own doors refuse to entertain me,
  HELENA. Call you me fair? That fair again unsay.
  PATROCLUS. I come from the worthy Achilles-
    For what is wedlock forced but a hell,
    For out o' doors he went without their help
  FIRST ATTENDANT. The man from Sicyon- is there such an one?
    That you shall stifle in your own report,
    Yet I insisted, yet you answer'd not,
    And thrust thyself into their companies.
    Wouldst thou be window'd in great Rome and see
  PETRUCHIO. Will it not be?
    That of his fortunes you should make a staff


    Some remedies for life.
    And princess no worse issued.
  VALENTINE. Belike, boy, then you are in love; for last morning you
    And poise the cause in justice' equal scales,
  DUKE. You must, sir, change persons with me ere you make that my
    I have one friend alive: thou wouldst disprove me.

    I dreamt my lady came and found me dead
    Behold her well; I pray you, look upon her.
    Should have borne men, and expectation fainted,
     Detains him from Cordelia.
    By this rude place we live in. Well encounter'd!
    Even so, or with much more contempt, men's eyes
  Nor my beloved as an idol show,
    The business of this man looks out of him;
  SIR TOBY. Confine! I'll confine myself no finer than I am. These
    Break we our watch up; and by my advice  
  BOLINGBROKE. My gracious lord, I come but for mine own.
    Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,  
    My sovereign mistress clouded so, without
    Ere twice in murk and occidental damp
    But that he speaks.
  ALICE. C'est bien dit, madame; il est fort bon Anglais.  
  Hot. Methinks my moiety, north from Burton here,
    What ho! Lucetta!
    Call me their traitor! Thou injurious tribune!
  After so long grief, such nativity!
    I do perceive't. There's nothing in her yet.
    me flatly I am no proud Jack like Falstaff, but a Corinthian, a
    He wears his honour in a box unseen

    King Henry's faithful and anointed queen.
    He had the wit which I can well observe
  ISABELLA. Yes, brother, you may live:
    But with a proud majestical high scorn
    so lov'd, and the performance so loathed? What verse for it? What
    Go sound the ocean and cast your nets;
    'Wind-changing Warwick now can change no more.'
    glover's paring-knife?
    Commotion in the winds! Frights, changes, horrors,

    look you, I warrant you.
SCENE IV.
     Sure I shall never marry like my sisters,

  CONSTABLE. Who hath measur'd the ground?
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  LUCIO. I beseech your Highness, do not marry me to a whore. Your
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Useth the sparrow- did oppress our nest;
    Like madness is the glory of this life,

  PLANTAGENET. And, by my soul, this pale and angry rose,

  ALL. Where shall we go?
    If you speak truth, for their poor mistress' sake:
  DUKE. About it, gentlemen!
            Let in the maid, that out a maid
    Thou never shalt hear herald any more.                  Exit
    And had I twenty times so many foes,
  Friar. 'Tis well consented. Presently away;
  Ros. She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.
  ANTONY. What is his strength by land?
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  Ben. O noble Prince. I can discover all
    Reprove the brown for rashness, and they them
    Hang mournful epitaphs, and do all rites
    Instead whereof let this supply the room.
    honestly in us, and is very likely to load our purposes with what
    And I will kiss thy detestable bones,
    It is impossible that ever Rome
  LEONTES. O, she's warm!  
    Nay, followed him till he had melted from
    We have willing dames enough; there cannot be
    traitor.
  WIFE. Too true; and bought his climbing very dear.
    yet hie you to Egypt again.
    Buckled below fair knighthood's bending knee.
    We for the worthiest hold the right from both.
    Whose violent property fordoes itself  
    But will you hear? The King is my love sworn.
  BUCKINGHAM. Peace, peace, for shame, if not for charity!
    Whose joy of her is overwhelm'd like mine,
    Now hath my soul brought forth her prodigy;
    May through the centre creep and so displease
     And bring some covering for this naked soul,
    Another bear the ewer, the third a diaper,
    Like bulls, or rather lions; did't not wake you?
    birding-pieces.
    Nothing in love. Now does he feel his title
                                                Exeunt Marching.
    And with our surfeiting and wanton hours
    every true man's apparel fits your thief.
    Become the touches of sweet harmony.
    And show'd thee all the qualities o' th' isle,
    Tewksbury mustard; there's no more conceit in him than is in a
    minim rest, one, two, and the third in your bosom! the very
Enter ORSINO, Duke of Illyria, CURIO, and other LORDS; MUSICIANS attending
    I marvel why I answer'd not again;
  ENOBARBUS. Bring in the banquet quickly; wine enough
    Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault
    He loves the gallimaufry. Ford, perpend.
    As mad in folly, lack'd the sense to know
    In the dark backward and abysm of time?
    And morsels unctuous, greases his pure mind,
    For nothing canst thou to damnation add
  FROTH. Ay, so I did indeed.
    And then to Brittany I'll cross the sea
    To pardon him that hath from nature stol'n
    that my husband saw this letter! It would give eternal food
    Yesterday took; Troy holds him very dear.
     You fen-suck'd fogs, drawn by the pow'rful sun,
    sworn. For my own part, I came in late. What should he do here?
    To meet you on the way and kiss your hand
    Good Master Snare, let him not scape. 'A comes continuantly to
             But winter and rough weather.
  Gon. Safer than trust too far.
    favour.
  GUIDERIUS. Those that I reverence, those I fear- the wise:
                                                 [They sit down]
  FIRST WATCH. Come, my captain knows you not.
    Was a sweet creature; such a ring as this,
     What guests were in her eyes, which parted thence
    That I might sit all night and watch with you.  
  IACHIMO. Thanks, madam; well.- Beseech you, sir,
    Till thou have audience.
  FIRST LORD. I should think so. He hath sent me an earnest inviting,
  QUICKLY. Alas, he speaks but for his friend.
  FRENCH KING. To-morrow shall you know our mind at full.
  ROSALINE. Madam, speak true. It is not so, my lord.
    And with his charity slain.  
  Ham. No, by the rood, not so!

  VINCENTIO. Thus strangers may be hal'd and abus'd. O monstrous
  Jul. I shall forget, to have thee still stand there,


    As having sense of beauty, do omit
    We are the greater poll, and in true fear
  SEBASTIAN. Please you, sir,
    That, in his secret doom, out of my blood
                                                         Exeunt.
  SECOND MURDERER. A bloody deed, and desperately
  Bene. It is in my scabbard. Shall I draw it?
    And he shall say you are not well today.
    And strain what other means is left unto us
    For their own good and ours.
    But heaviness foreruns the good event.
  Peter. Anon.
  SIR TOBY. I will meditate the while upon some horrid message for a
    In nature there's no blemish but the mind:
SCENE I.
  My house was at the Phoenix! Wast thou mad,
    And see wheer Brutus be alive or dead,
  HECTOR. And so, good night.
  PLEBEIANS. True,
    And bid me, when my fate would have me wive,
                                                         Exeunt.
    Thou wrong'st a gentleman who is as far
    I shall desire more love and knowledge of you.
  Ham. Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
    Here she comes.
  EVANS. What is he?
             Through this palace, with sweet peace;
    Or God will punish me. I do believe,
    cause they should be esteemed nothing. Cleopatra, catching but
    Death, death; O amiable lovely death!
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Yet am I arm'd against the worst can happen;  
  CELIA. If I had a thunderbolt in mine eye, I can tell who should
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  AGAMEMNON. Good night.
    nothing?  
   On your imaginary forces work.
    England, impatient of your just demands,
                        Enter Benvolio.
  GONZALO. I have inly wept,
  SILVIA. I pray thee let me look on that again.
     Who 'twas that so endur'd, with his strong arms
    Upon the innocent and aweless throne.
  PAINTER. Indifferent.
     To make your speed to Dover, you shall find
                                    [The LADIES-IN-WAITING mask]
    buttock, the quatch buttock, the brawn buttock, or any buttock.
    Show'd thy dear mother any courtesy,
  SIR RICHARD RATCLIFF
          When nobles are their tailors' tutors,
    3. LORD CHANCELLOR, with purse and mace before him.
    Soldiers, defer the spoil of the city until night; for with these
Scene VI.
    He solemnly had sworn that what he spoke
    But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son-
  AGUECHEEK. Faith, I'll home to-morrow, Sir Toby. Your niece will
    Name Cleopatra as she is call'd in Rome.

    But I had not so much of man in me,
  Kent. Fellow, I know thee.
    In self-same manner doth accuse my husband;
    Who half an hour since came from the Dauphin,  

    By putting on the destin'd livery.
    it go which way it will, he that dies this year is quit for the
    He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman.
    I play'd the fool, it was my negligence,
    Was not devised for the realm of France;
  PISTOL. Let floods o'erswell, and fiends for food howl on!
    Than answer my waked wrath!  
    your wives for; but he comes armed in his fortune, and prevents
  DUKE. Beshrew me, sir, but if he make this good,
    about and about, and come you in and come you in. 'Rah, tah,
    Yet Brutus says he was ambitious,
  To bear greater wrong, than hate's known injury.
  BELARIUS. Great griefs, I see, med'cine the less, for Cloten
  AGRIPPA. Thou hast a sister by the mother's side,
    against his valour; and my state that way is dangerous, since I
  Bene. Count Claudio?
    Master Launcelot.
  And passed sentence may not be recall'd
    I'll leave my son my virtuous deeds behind;
  MACBETH. [Aside.] Two truths are told,
  SECOND WATCH. Awake, sir, awake; speak to us.
  OBERON. Well, go thy way; thou shalt not from this grove
  SLY. Ay, it stands so that I may hardly tarry so long. But I would
    And see how one another lends content;
  VOLUMNIA. Let her alone, lady; as she is now, she will but disease
Bangor. The Archdeacon's house.
  Beat. Kill Claudio.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. O, this is full of pity! Sir, it calls,
    Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
    puts me her white hand to his cloven chin-
ACT III. SCENE 1
  FIRST MURDERER. What if it come to thee again?
  BAPTISTA. Gentlemen, content ye; I am resolv'd.
    Who can control his fate? 'Tis not so now.
    [Aside to MRS. FORD]  Look who comes yonder; she shall
    Bring in to any of your ancestors.
    Cannot induce you to attend my words,
    neck, one chin, and so forth. Were you sent hither to praise me?
    Then gave I her (so tutored by my art)
    can write very like my lady, your niece; on forgotten matter we
    Commit my cause in balance to be weigh'd.
    merry, but yet she is not well. But thanks be given, she's very
                                               Exeunt SERVANTS
    Be touch'd at very heart.
    Your wisdom best shall think.
    Till the injurious Romans did extort
  CONSTANCE. You have beguil'd me with a counterfeit
    For many lives stand between me and home;
    And that shall be the ransom for their fault.
  Bene. And I do with an eye of love requite her.
SCENE II.

    For, though before his face I speak the words,
Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER
  GAOLER. A heavy reckoning for you, sir. But the comfort is, you
  FIRST OFFICER. What's that to us? The time goes by; away.
    Because I am the storehouse and the shop

SCENE:
    With Lady Margery, your midwife there,
    Even he that had held up the very life
    We will here part.
    Even when the navel of the state was touch'd,
     His heart-struck injuries.
    And sauc'd our broths as Juno had been sick,
    He was the author, thou the instrument.
  MRS. FORD. Well, I do, then; yet, I say, I could show you to
    But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
    And hither come in 't. Go, hence with diligence!
  Balth. Because you talk of wooing, I will sing,
    And heave it shall some weight or break my back.
    That we may wander o'er this bloody field
  POSTHUMUS. I embrace these conditions; let us have articles betwixt
  HOSTESS. O My most worshipful lord, an't please your Grace, I am a
    for't. Thou think'st not of this now. Nay, I remember the trick
  PERCY. My gracious lord, I tender you my service,
  BUCKINGHAM. Had you not come upon your cue, my lord,
  CAMILLO. This shows a sound affection.
  GLOUCESTER. Hadst thou been his mother, thou couldst have better
    hath. Give me life; which if I can save, so; if not, honour comes
    would do reason.
    There lie, and there thy character; there these
  CLEOPATRA. The man hath seen some majesty, and should know.
  CORIOLANUS. Ha! What is that?

ACT I. Scene I.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. O poverty in wit, kingly-poor flout!
  SCROOP. Peace have they made with him indeed, my lord.
  ELINOR. Nay, I would have you go before me thither.
    With my more noble meaning, not a man
  NORTHUMBERLAND. How doth my son and brother?
                                                   Exit FALSTAFF
    As others would ambitiously receive it.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. And welcome more common; for that's nothing
Milan. The DUKE'S palace

    I must be brief, lest resolution drop
    his honour in marrying the renowned Claudio (whose estimation do
    For a dark hour or twain.
  To see the making of her carcanet,
                       Enter SUFFOLK and QUEEN
    But who comes with our brother Marcus here?
     Over her passion, who, most rebel-like,
  ANTONY. With the health that Pompey gives him, else he is a very
    her nothing, though I profess myself her adorer, not her friend.
  MACBETH. morrow, both.
  SICINIUS. Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.
    As in revenge, have suck'd up from the sea
    A sweeter and a lovelier gentleman-
                                                him in the same.


    What great ones do the less will prattle of-
    What have you dream'd of late of this war's purpose?
     Upon the foul disease. Revoke thy gift,
    Came there a certain lord, neat and trimly dress'd,
    thee; thou, having made me businesses which none without thee can
  John. If your leisure serv'd, I would speak with you.
    Country call'd his! and you his mistress, only
              Although thy breath be rude.
  Be mad, good master; cry 'The devil!'
  Kent. Authority.
    must produce for an interpreter.
  POMPEY. Very ready, sir.
    And the Lord Hastings, who attended him
                                                          [Dies]
    That thou adorest and hast in reverence-
    Of any constant man. What, worse and worse!
    Well fitted in arts, glorious in arms;
    So soon forsaken? Young men's love then lies
    As that proud dame, the Lord Protector's wife.  
    And like a mountain not to be remov'd.
  ANGELO. I think it well;
  YORK. Are not the speedy scouts return'd again
    coward, Hal.
    Of his profession, that his good receipt
    To prostitute our past-cure malady
    Than doth a rich embroider'd canopy
  ULYSSES. Agamemnon,

    And therefore red that would avoid dispraise
  CAESAR. You may see, Lepidus, and henceforth know,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  CLOWN. O Lord, sir!-Thick, thick; spare not me.  
  As you love strokes, so jest with me again.
    Stands not within the prospect of belief,
    We do it wrong, being so majestical,
  CADE. [Aside] I feel remorse in myself with his words; but I'll  
  Bene. Think you in your soul the Count Claudio hath wrong'd Hero?
    Been all the worth of's car. Away to Britain
  That love is merchandized, whose rich esteeming,  
  KING. A blister on his sweet tongue, with my heart,  
  MALVOLIO. Sir Topas, Sir Topas!
    He did unseal them; and the first he view'd,
    Puts on his pretty looks, repeats his words,
  CYMBELINE. Stand by my side, you whom the gods have made
  BEROWNE. Will YOU prick't with your eye?
     Hath rivall'd for our daughter. What in the least
    Her father and her country and her friends,
    truth enough alive to make societies secure; but security enough
  THERSITES. No, no-I am a rascal; a scurvy railing knave; a very
    Giving no ground unto the house of York,
  QUEEN. Banish us both, and send the King with me.
  Cap. Send for the County. Go tell him of this.
    at us, and we may do anything extempore. The Prince himself is
    am glad of it.
London. The palace
  PROTEUS. That thou art banished- O, that's the news!-
    The strides they victors made; and now our cowards,
  FLAVIUS. [Aside] Lord Lucius and Lucullus? Humh!
  HELENA. If it appear not plain, and prove untrue,
    My too much changed son.- Go, some of you,
    Unless some dull and favourable hand
    This third, dull lead, with warning all as blunt:
  KING HENRY. My Queen and son are gone to France for aid;
    Is privilege for thy departure hence.
    For here it sleeps and does no hired harm.

    That may discover such integrity;

    Thy life is dear; for all that life can rate
  SERVANT. Why, they stay at door, sir.                     Exit
    That at his will he may do danger with.
    do it.
    I dare now call mine own. O Cromwell, Cromwell!
    This sleep is sound indeed; this is a sleep
    What is 'lapis,' William?
  OLD LADY. Why, this it is: see, see!
    Give sentence on the execrable wretch
Another part of the field
                        Enter SOOTHSAYER
  MARGARELON. A bastard son of Priam's.
    I never lov'd you much; but I ha' prais'd ye
  SOOTHSAYER. About the ninth hour, lady.
  FABIAN. This wins him, liver and all.
     Are as the time is. To be tender-minded
    long as there is a passage in my throat and drink in Illyria.

  Hot. To-night, say I.
    Let Antony look over Caesar's head
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. May I be bold to ask what that contains,
    degree, and your place the Dale. Colville shall still be your
  EVANS. Trib, trib, fairies; come; and remember your parts.
    Remaineth none but mad-brain'd Salisbury,
  TITUS. Kind Rome, that hast thus lovingly reserv'd
  SICINIUS. This is a happier and more comely time
    Cried hate upon him; and all their prayers and love
    Thy very beams will dry those vapours up,
  Fran. My lord?
    Her will, recoiling to her better judgement,

  Rom. [to a Servingman] What lady's that, which doth enrich the hand
  CLARENCE. That's a day longer than a wonder lasts.
  BROTHERS. Help, Jupiter! or we appeal,
  CORIOLANUS. How? What?  
  And broils root out the work of masonry,
  CARLISLE. As surely as I live, my lord.
    Dash'd all to pieces! O, the cry did knock
    Crying, his stones, his daughter, and his ducats.
      loss,
  ALL. Welcome, high Prince, the mighty Duke of York!
    you sewing here? A fine spot, in good faith. How does your little
    Which puts some of us in distemper; but
    [Aloud]  Away, make haste, thou know'st where I will tarry.
  Ham. It will not speak. Then will I follow it.
    Rather proclaim it, Westmoreland, through my host,
  CATESBY. Here, my good lord.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
     Exit.
    Within whose circuit is Elysium
    When I desire it too.
    Are at this hour asleep! O sleep, O gentle sleep,
  Lear. You must bear with me.
                                                Exeunt severally
  TRINCULO. Thou liest, most ignorant monster: I am in case

    Deposing thee before thou wert possess'd,
                     97
    Wanting his manage; and they will almost
    And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
  FLUELLEN. He is my dear friend, an please you.
    O my poor kingdom, sick with civil blows!
  VALENTINE. Why?
  CHAMBERLAIN. I will, my lord.
  YORK. If York have ill demean'd himself in France,
    I mean to prove this lady's courtesy.
  TALBOT. Well then, alone, since there's no remedy,
    Rot half a grain a day! He lies to the heart.
    Than the rich jewel'd coffer of Darius,
ADRIANA. As if Time were in debt! How fondly dost thou reason!
  IACHIMO. Would I had put my estate and my neighbour's on th'
  IAGO.                          I'faith, I fear it has.
  TROILUS. Hence, broker-lackey. Ignominy and shame
  PRINCE. That Julius Caesar was a famous man;
  LUCETTA. If you think so, then stay at home and go not.

    my creditors grow cruel, my estate is very low, my bond to the
    If it should give your age such cause of fear.
    Me to proclaim the truth; and I am come,
    Hector! where's Hector? I will none but Hector.            Exeunt
    Uncertain way of gain! But I am in
  HOLOFERNES. Thou disputes like an infant; go whip thy gig.
    If you will hang me for it, you may; but I had rather it would
    To desperate adventures and assur'd destruction.
  FIRST WATCH. A noble fellow, I warrant him.
    Let not the piece of virtue which is set
    His brother's death at Bristow, the Lord Scroop.
  With ugly rack on his celestial face,
    We'll pull his plumes and take away his train,
    Is a reserved honesty, and that
  Pedro. How now? two of my brother's men bound? Borachio one.
    Some of his bastard blood; and in disgrace
    Will prove as bitter, black, and tragical.
     man cannot smell out, 'a may spy into.
  SEBASTIAN. O, that record is lively in my soul!
A wood near Athens
  Of different flowers in odour and in hue,
    Just in her case!
    Of that self-blood that first gave life to you;
  LADY MACBETH. Donalbain.
    Than my weak-hearted enemies dare offer.
    Or as the south to the septentrion.
  LARTIUS. So, let the ports be guarded; keep your duties
    You do not hold the method to enforce
    And gallop o'er the field.
    the horse- with a linen stock on one leg and a kersey boot-hose
    keep your counsel.
    Yet Brutus says he was ambitious,
    To make it truster of your own report
  It hath in solemn synods been decreed,
    Grandpre and Roussi, Fauconbridge and Foix,
     I am mightily abus'd. I should e'en die with pity,
    Our chariots and our horsemen be in readiness.
  HORTENSIO. Would all the world but he had quite forsworn!
    And when he heard him swear and vow to God
Enter BERTRAM, and the two FRENCH LORDS
  SHEPHERD. Ay, sir.

    Is marching hitherward in proud array,  
    From out the fiery portal of the east,
    But the Queen's kindred, and night-walking heralds  
  TITUS. Come, take away. Lavinia, go with me;
  WARWICK. What dares not Warwick, if false Suffolk dare him?
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  OCTAVIA. Good night, sir.
             Gentles, do not reprehend.
    better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with
    Devis'd at first to keep the strong in awe.
  CASSIUS. Flatterers? Now, Brutus, thank yourself.
  CLEOPATRA. Why, there's more gold.
  MOTHER.   Lucina lent not me her aid,

WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    And then we'll try what these dastard Frenchmen dare.
    rogues? I think they have swallowed one another. I would laugh at
  Prince. Rebellious subjects, enemies to peace,
  Mer. I mean, sir, in delay
    you have but eleven now. Come, I charge you both go with me; for
  VIOLA. I can say little more than I have studied, and that
                        Re-enter THISBY
  PROVOST. None, sir, none.
  Hor. What are they that would speak with me?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Presuming on an ague's privilege,
    And able means, we had not parted thus.
                            Enter ANGELO
  Laer. My lord, I will be rul'd;
    rheumatic as two dry toasts; you cannot one bear with another's
     By th' law of arms thou wast not bound to answer
  CHIEF JUSTICE. I talk not of his Majesty. You would not come when I
  CASSIO. She was here even now; she haunts me in every place. I was
  TROILUS. I did swear patience.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  CLAUDIO. Call it so.
  SALISBURY. The King hath dispossess'd himself of us.
    Knock at my door, and tell me what he says.
    And call them shames, which are, indeed, nought else
    More than his singularity, he goes

    Broke be my sword, my arms torn and defac'd,
    The mailed Mars Shall on his altar sit
    Which he did thrice refuse. Was this ambition?
    And point by point the treasons of his master
          No heretics burn'd, but wenches' suitors;
    them.                                                        Exit
    With many legions of strange fantasies,
    out upon thee, hind!
  Not to be tempted, would she be immured,
  NICHOLAS. Fellow Grumio!
    Thinking upon his services, took from you
  SIR TOBY. Fie that you'll say so! He plays o' th' viol-de-gamboys,
  PANDARUS. O, here he comes. How now, how now!
    Cunning in dumbness, from my weakness draws
  That's cover'd o'er with Turkish tapestry
    How she holds up the neb, the bill to him!
  MOTH. I will add the l'envoy. Say the moral again.
    believing rightly can ever believe such impossible passages of
    The poor remainder of Andronici
  To Adriana, villain, hie thee straight;
  GEORGE. Come and get thee a sword, though made of a lath; they have
    Wearing thy hearer in thy mistress' praise,
  ORLANDO. Very well; what would you?
  Bene. I will not desire that.

    Opinion, that so sticks on Marcius, shall
    A man of sovereign parts, peerless esteem'd,
  BASSANIO. Dear sir, of force I must attempt you further;
    And since mine eyes are witness of her lightness,
    And hath as oft a sland'rous epitaph
  CLOWN. One, that she's not in heaven, whither God send her quickly!
  TALBOT. Content, my liege! Yes; but that I am prevented,
    What he requests of us. Good Diomed,
    They vanish tongue-tied in their guiltiness.
    For't not dropp'd down yet.
    blade is out.
    Ay, and that tongue of his that bade the Romans
    The cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth,
    You have, I know, petition'd all the gods
    twenty be without a score of villains. If there sit twelve women
    When his fair angels would salute my palm,

    Splitting the air with noise.
  MARGARET. Say, Earl of Suffolk, if thy name be so,
    Since the first father wore it. This ring he holds
    By your good favour, too sharp; men so noble,
    As Cassius' legions are by Antony.
  Pol. [behind] O, I am slain!
    times you stand on distance, your passes, stoccadoes, and
    And kingly government of this your land-
  ENOBARBUS. That truth should be silent I had almost forgot.
  Pleaseth you walk with me down to his house,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. There's not a man I meet but doth salute me

    friend; and I fear not mine own shame as much as his peril.
    We may the number of the ships behold,
  POLIXENES. No longer stay.
  GLOUCESTER. Nay, be not angry; I am pleas'd again.
    How in his suit he scorn'd you; but your loves,
    Thou counterfeit'st most lively.
  DUKE OF VENICE. Make room, and let him stand before our face.
    You greet with present grace and great prediction
  ULYSSES. I do not strain at the position-
    For oaths are straws, men's faiths are wafer-cakes,

    You will demand of me why I do this.
    When I shall gust it last.- How came't, Camillo,
    You may as well use question with the wolf,

    The honour and regard of such a father.  
  Whose weakness, married to thy stronger state,
    hand, to th' infernal deep, with Erebus and tortures vile also.
    And he would love me dearly as a child.
    And, Romans, fight for freedom in your choice.
    you prick us, do we not bleed? If you tickle us, do we not laugh?
  NERISSA. What talk you of the posy or the value?
    convince the honour of my mistress, if in the holding or loss of
  CAESAR. Calpurnia!
    his villany; for he both pleases men and angers them, and then
  Edg. Chill not let go, zir, without vurther 'cagion.
      But woe is me! you are so sick of late,
    Now for the love of Love and her soft hours,
    With quiet hours; for I do protest
    Not stepping o'er the bounds of modesty.


    knight, swearing by his honour, for he never had any; or if he
  And lace it self with his society?  
  ROSALIND. Or else she could not have the wit to do this. The wiser,  
    Three months from twelve; then let me see, the rate-
  Ham. That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
    Give it a plum, a cherry, and a fig.
    A little of that worthy work perform'd
  And so of these. Which is the natural man,
  Rom. Well, in that hit you miss. She'll not be hit
  FIRST SOLDIER. What is his reputation with the Duke?
  APEMANTUS. Then thou liest. Look in thy last work, where thou hast
      a fairy, and OTHERS as the Fairy Queen, fairies, and
  DUKE. How say you by this change?
      The drum playing and trumpet sounding, re-enter WARWICK  
    For this, consorted with the citizens,
    His honour and myself are at the one,
    This just and learned priest, Cardinal Campeius,
    By being worse than they. I am Posthumus,
    Believe't not lightly- though I go alone,
  Showing fair nature is both kind and tame;
    We must not think the Turk is so unskillful
  Marg. Clap's into 'Light o' love.' That goes without a burden. Do
    But I will eat, and drink, and sleep as soft
    My father's loss, like a most royal prince,
    On meddling monkey, or on busy ape,
    Muster'd my soldiers, gathered flocks of friends,
    Long guard it yours!  [Kneeling]  If I affect it more
    Direct my sail! On, lusty gentlemen!
  ANTONIO. Hear me yet, good Shylock.
    And winds of all the comers kiss'd your sails,
    From tyrant Duke unto a tyrant brother.
    Is very snow-broth, one who never feels
  FERDINAND. O most dear mistress,
    The sun shines hot; and, if we use delay,
    And writ as little beard.
  Pol. Hath there been such a time- I would fain know that-
SCENE II.
    fear of Got in a riot; the Council, look you, shall desire
  CAMILLO. Gracious, my lord,
  PAROLLES. I love not many words.                          Exit
    The loss of those three lords torments my heart.

    It would control my dam's god, Setebos,
  SIR WILLIAM LUCY
    But now I know thy mind: thou dost suspect
    To reach at victory above my head,
    To that destruction which I'll guard them from,  
    Cominius, Marcius your old enemy,
  EMILIA. Good gentlemen, let me have leave to speak;
    And suddenly resolve me in my suit.         [Giving a paper]
    other shelter hereabout. Misery acquaints a man with
    But who is man that is not angry?
  I will determine this before I stir.
    'Tis just the fashion. Wherefore do you look
  Gentle thou art, and therefore to be won,
  TOUCHSTONE. Faith, we met, and found the quarrel was upon the
    follows our places stops the mouth of all find-faults- as I will
  TAMORA.  [Aside to her sons]  What say you, boys? Will you abide
The forest
    While I with self-same kindness welcome thine.
    Here's gold. Go, suck the subtle blood o' th' grape
                                              Exeunt Murtherers.
    To merit bliss by making me despair.
  ROSALIND. But if you do refuse to marry me,  
    Or stomach-qualm'd at land, a dram of this
  PHEBE. Why, that were covetousness.
  TOUCHSTONE. Good ev'n, gentle friend. Cover thy head, cover thy

    And hath preferr'd thee, if it be preferment
  PRIEST. Well met, my lord; I am glad to see your honour.
    The qualities of people. Come, my queen;
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>

    Our will is Antony be took alive;
    Than this for whom we rend'red up this woe.          Exeunt.
    The shadow of myself form'd in her eye;
    Upon a soldier's thigh. I have seen the day
    you'll undertake her no more.
    Tell thou an earl his divination lies,
    penitent to be so bar'd before his death. You know the course is
    his good-nights. And now is this Vice's dagger become a squire,
Scene II.
    That mov'd pale Cassius to conspire? and what
    Being skilless in these parts; which to a stranger,
    that's brief; and bid "Good morrow, general."
   A hundred alms-houses right well supplied;
    The absolute soldiership you have by land;
    And I embrace this fortune patiently,

    Till you know better how to handle it.
  Yet nor the lays of birds, nor the sweet smell
    To make bad good and good provoke to harm.
    Thy lips, that kiss'd the Queen, shall sweep the ground;
    this gunpowder Percy, though he be dead. How if he should
    Of what is past.
    For he was likely, had he been put on,
    Had stomach for them all.
    bread. We had an hour's talk of that wart; I shall never
    Then, then, when there was nothing could have stay'd
    Save in aspect, hath all offence seal'd up;
  POMPEY. Ah, this thou shouldst have done,
    But he fell to himself again, and sweetly
    Therefore no more turn me to him, sweet Nan.

  LUCIO. Has censur'd him

    world what the bird hath done to her own nest.
  KING EDWARD. Is Clarence dead? The order was revers'd.
  ESCALUS. It is but needful:
  MRS. PAGE. Be sure of that-two other husbands.  
    Yet is it true, sir.
    A market-maid to Rome, and have prevented

    Horrible sight! Now I see 'tis true;
  I see the jewel best enamelled
    And we, I hope, sir, are no murderers.
  Mess. I see, lady, the gentleman is not in your books.
  JOHN OF GAUNT, Duke of Lancaster - uncle to the King
  Hor. They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
    Give me excess of it, that, surfeiting,
    Spiteful and wrathful, who, as others do,
  Friar. My leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now.
    To be entangled with those mouth-made vows,
    Farewell nobility! Let his Grace go forward
    I made these wars for Egypt; and the Queen-
  Let us come in, that we may bind him fast,
               MONTAGUE, WARWICK, and soldiers
    Save those to God, that run before our business.
    And gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me.
  PRIAM. Paris, you speak
    I'll bear him no more sticks, but follow thee,
    did look upon.
  GENTLEMAN. Marry, as I take it, to Rousillon;
    Now, good my lord, give me the scope of justice;
    Of sulphurous roaring the most mighty Neptune
    Till his lost child be found? Which that it shall,
    Whatever shall become of Michael Cassio,
    But first, I beg my pardon: the young lord
    Think but upon the wrong he did us all,
  ROSALIND. I pray thee, if it stand with honesty,
    So true a fool is love, that in your will,
    Never so few, and never yet more need.                Exeunt
    Curs'd he thy stones for thus deceiving me!
    For that my grandsire was an Englishman-
  GHOST. Ay, at Philippi.
  TIMON. I prithee beat thy drum and get thee gone.
    To o'erthrow law, and in one self-born hour
  EXETER. His is the right, and therefore pardon me.
    better than a beast. An the worst fall that ever fell, I hope I

  ALONSO. You the like loss!
    Hung on our driving boat, I saw your brother,
    Give notice to such men of sort and suit
    Come hither, Leonato. What was it you told me of to-day? that
    FALSTAFF. Of what quality was your love, then?
  BUSHY. Each substance of a grief hath twenty shadows,
    A day will come when York shall claim his own;
  For fear of harms that preach in our behoof.

  TROILUS. What shall she remember?
  DUKE. Of government the properties to unfold
         And will he not come again?
    I make my quarrel in particular.
     The lamentable change is from the best;
    That he could gnaw a crust at two hours old.
    Have to the port of Athens sent their ships
  Host. O Jesu, he doth it as like one of these harlotry players as
    But kill'd itself much sooner.
    Soft, by and by. Let me the curtains draw.
    The cable broke, the holding-anchor lost,
    nothing doubt prevailing and to make it brief wars. This is true,

  I to the world am like a drop of water
    And will revolt from me to succour him.
  Reg. This house is little; the old man and 's people
  King. I have sent to seek him and to find the body.
    Kent, in the Commentaries Caesar writ,
    For so appears this fleet majestical,
    Find in myself no pity to myself?
  Edg. When we our betters see bearing our woes,
    During the life, let us not wrong it dead.
    follow.
  Ham. Did you not speak to it?
    What news with you, sir?
    Upon your Grace, but with all duteous love
  MAN. Alas, I know not: how gets the tide in?  
  VIOLA. Madam, I come to whet your gentle thoughts

    with you, coz; marry, this, coz: there is, as 'twere, a
  SLENDER. Give you good morrow, sir.
    From me receive that natural competency
  TIMON. How has the ass broke the wall, that thou art out of the
    and tell us his deeds, we are to put our tongues into those
    Being destin'd to a drier death on shore.         Exit SPEED


  POMPEY. O, the better, sir! For he that drinks all night and is

    If none, he'll say in Troy, when he retires,

  Beat. Very ill too.  
    Bid him not fear the separated council:
    Out of the speech of peace, that bears such grace,
    great persuasion, and partly to save your life, for I was told
    And yet I am sure you are not satisfied

    But first begs pardon. Will you sterner be
    Than drink so much in one.
  Bora. Marry, on Hero, the daughter and heir of Leonato.
    The serpent that did sting thy father's life
    And my reliances on his fracted dates
SCENE III.
    By him imprinted, and within his power
    The helms o' th' state, who care for you like fathers,
    ill angel.
    We'll strive to bear it for your worthy sake
  SICINIUS. Meet on the market-place. We'll attend you there;
    Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
    Unto a youthful gentleman of worth;
    Than to entreaty.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    In our own proper entrails.                     Low alarums.
  SECOND LORD. [Aside] To have smell'd like a fool.
    Queen. The instances that second marriage move
  ANGELO. Your brother is a forfeit of the law,
Enter Hotspur solus, reading a letter.
    And for I am richer than to hang by th' walls
  TAMORA. O cruel, irreligious piety!  

    When others sleep upon their quiet beds,
    Give up your staff, sir, and the King his realm.
    Now thy proud neck bears half my burden'd yoke,
    thousand part of a minute in the affairs of love, it may be said
  PROVOST. I crave your honour's pardon.
  A ROMAN. You sad Andronici, have done with woes;
    As, by our hands and this our present act
    For your partaker Pole, and you yourself,
    Before sunrising, lest his son George fall
     Took their discharge.
    Behold their quarter'd fires, have both their eyes
    To wage an instant trial with the King.
  YORK. Nay, we shall heat you thoroughly anon.
    There is no vice so simple but assumes
    Possess your fancy.

    He is complete in feature and in mind,
    Most dangerously you have with him prevail'd,
    Cupid, all arm'd; a certain aim he took
           In delay there lies no plenty,
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. O Dorset, speak not to me, get thee
    And not King Richard; thou most beauteous inn,
    For, by the dreadful Pluto, if thou dost not,
    That his own hand may strike his honour down
    Desolate, desolate, will I hence and die;
  LARTIUS. My horse to yours- no.
                          Enter a Gentleman.
    Shall be for me, and, to requite you further,  
    hold him yonder.
Scene IV.
    And Florence is denied before he comes;
    Shame come to Romeo!  
Enter HOST and SIMPLE
  SPEED. From a pound to a pin? Fold it over and over,
    Strike those that hurt, and hurt not those that help!
    'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'
    Your Majesty loads our house. For those of old,
  SILVIA. Perchance you think too much of so much pains?
    Abhor me.
    What counts harsh fortune casts upon my face;
  SHALLOW. Thomas Wart!
    Now mingled with their courages, will make known
  WOLSEY. How! Of me?
    My master's a very Jew. Give him a present! Give him a halter. I
    You say, if I bring in your Rosalind,
    stole your meat, and you'll beat the post.
    Thy bed lust-stain'd shall with lust's blood be spotted.
    Make livers pale and lustihood deject.
    something gently consider'd, I'll bring you where he is aboard,  
    I say it shall be so.
                    Re-enter BUCKINGHAM
    Pays dear for my offences.                              Exit
  MARCUS BRUTUS, leader of the conspiracy against Caesar
    When yet you were in place and in account
  Ham. Hear you, sir!
    Of spirit so still and quiet that her motion
    These words hereafter thy tormentors be!
Capulet's orchard.
    That if it chance the one of us do fail
  BELARIUS. This is he,
    but 'tis enough, 'twill serve. Ask for me to-morrow, and you
    And let my liver rather heat with wine
  ANTONY. Alack, our terrene moon
  Pedro. He is in earnest.
  Ham. Nor did you nothing hear?
  The better angel is a man right fair:
  TOUCHSTONE, the court jester
  LAUNCELOT. I know not what I shall think of that; but I am
      The instant burst of clamour that she made

SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    blood in his liver as will clog the foot of a flea, I'll eat the
    have to the King concerns him nothing, let him call me rogue for
  Clown. Faith, if 'a be not rotten before 'a die (as we have many
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Which, since they are of you, and odious,
     I can scarce speak to thee. Thou'lt not believe
    By med'cine'life may be prolong'd, yet death
    By two of their most reverend Senate greet thee.
    His business more material.
  THERSITES. Agamemnon-how if he had boils full, an over, generally?
    first-born of Egypt.
    Now they believe it, and withal whet me
    And aid me with that store of power you have
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  SPEED. 'And more wealth than faults.'
  Ham. This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
  FIRST WITCH. Why, how now, Hecate? You look angerly.
  BRABANTIO.                     The worser welcome.
  FORD. And one that is as slanderous as Satan?
    With great creating nature.
  LAFEU. Lady, of that I have made a bold charter; but, I thank my
  CINNA. Briefly, I dwell by the Capitol.
    Therefore, no more of it; hear other things.

    admitted.
    were to be saved by merit, what hole in hell were hot enough for
    And wonder greatly that man's face can fold
    To be my fellow-servant to your ladyship.

  Now stand you on the top of happy hours,
    forswear thin potations and to addict themselves to sack.
    High order in this great solemnity.                   Exeunt
    'Proud'- and 'I thank you'- and 'I thank you not'-
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE

                          [Exeunt Prince John and Westmoreland.]
    The water of my land, find her disease
    a beard neglected, which you have not; but I pardon you for that,
    Recking as little what betideth me
  FIRST SOLDIER. He calls for the tortures. What will you say without
    Upon that day either prepare to die
  TALBOT. Lost and recovered in a day again!
  ALL. That would hang us, every mother's son.
                    DUKE in his friar's habit
  Within his bending sickle's compass come,
    Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
    The secret of your conference?
  FOURTH CITIZEN. Ay, and wisely.
  PUCELLE. Are ye so hot, sir? Yet, Pucelle, hold thy peace;
    Or seem so, craftily; and that's not good.
    daughter.
  CLAUDIO. Why give you me this shame?
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  FANG and SNARE, Sheriff's officers
  FLAVIUS. I would I could not think it.
    He's loving and most gracious. 'Twill be much
    of nature to preserve virginity. Loss of virginity is rational
     yeoman.
    Of thy deceased brother Geffrey's son,
    What have you lost by losing of this day?

    Farewell, brother! We split, we split, we split!]
  Past reason hated as a swallowed bait,
                                            [Falls into the pit]
    It is turn'd out of towns and cities for a dangerous thing;
  Ham. Then came each actor on his ass-
     To have found a safe redress, but now grow fearful,
  WARWICK. It cannot be, my lord.
  VALENTINE. No Valentine, if Silvia have forsworn me.
    Quarrelling upon the head of valour; which, indeed,
                            SCENE II.
    There cannot be those numberless offences

The country near Dunsinane. Drum and colors.
    And all the priests and friars in my realm
    Found in the pocket of the slain Roderigo,
  DUKE. This very night; for Love is like a child,
    Hath twice done salutation to the morn;  
    By taking nor by giving of excess,  
  MARIANA. Why, just, my lord, and that is Angelo,
    cardinally given, might have been accus'd in fornication,
    Have been as piercing as the mid-day sun
    Who dazzling so, that eye shall be his heed,
    husband is deceived, or Sir John.  
  LUCY. Herald, conduct me to the Dauphin's tent,
    to-night; thy father's beard is turn'd white with the news; you
    And I must find that title in your tongue
    Call'd Robin Goodfellow. Are not you he
  CELIA. Are you his brother?
  MALVOLIO. Gentlewoman, my lady calls.                     Exit
  NORFOLK. Hear the King's pleasure, Cardinal, who commands you
    my wiles; upon my secrecy, to defend mine honesty; my mask, to
  ACHILLES. What, what?
    And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
    A woman clad in armour chaseth them.
    the table with a grace, I will, on my privilege I have with the
                          Enter CHORUS
    Spotted, detested, and abominable.
    Our lands, our lives, and an, are Bolingbroke's.
    I love thee so that, maugre all thy pride,
  LAFEU. You beg more than word then. Cox my passion! give me your  
    curse:
    And thus I win thee.
    For that same groan doth put this in my mind,
    Their ragged curtains poorly are let loose,
  CORIOLANUS. Hence, rotten thing! or I shall shake thy bones
A court within the Castle of the Earl of Gloucester.
    Whose hours, whose bed, whose meal and exercise
  HORTENSIO. I am afraid, sir,
    with's hand, and turns up the white o' th' eye to his discourse.
    bills be not stol'n. Well, you are to call at all the alehouses
  Cap. As rich shall Romeo's by his lady's lie-
    Loud 'larums, neighing steeds, and trumpets' clang?
                    Enter the MESSENGER again
    My lord's almost so far transported that
    I dedicate myself to your sweet pleasure,
    That you will clear yourself from all suspense.
    upon his schoolmaster.
    If in your country wars you chance to die,
                                                          Exeunt
    And needs no other suitor but his likings
    lovers lacking- God warn us!- matter, the cleanliest shift is to
    see a huswife take thee between her legs and spin it off.
  FALSTAFF. A better than thou. I am a gentleman: thou art a drawer.  

    So near the cradle of the Fairy Queen?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  ARIEL.  [Aside to PROSPERO]  Was't well done?
    In the cauldron boil and bake;
    You break into some merry passion
    How shall we then dispense with that contract,
                        Enter PROTEUS
    To speak my mind, and I will through and through
    thus get my wife into corners.
    To blench from this and to stand firm by honour.
    Of hinds and peasants, rude and merciless;
    In right of Arthur, do I claim of thee;
    End in a word: such is the breath of Kings.
    But with a grain a day, I would not buy
  CYMBELINE. Laud we the gods;
    I dare do all that may become a man;
  CHARMIAN. A proper man.
  CELIA. Were I my father, coz, would I do this?
  KING PHILIP. Stand in his face to contradict his claim.
    No, not that name was given me at the font-
    Even in his garments, and did give himself,
    How can we aid you with our kindred tears?
  BUCKINGHAM. All in this presence are thy betters, Warwick.  
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, the truth is, Sir John, you live in great
    heads are both one; they may jowl horns together like any deer
    Like little body with a mighty heart,
    These are a side that would be glad to have
  CITIZEN. The King of England, when we know the King.

  KEEPER. My lord, I dare not. Sir Pierce of Exton,
    Full surfeits and the dryness of his bones
  LODOVICO. Hark!
  King. Arm you, I pray you, to th', speedy voyage;
    Gave't you the King?
    [Beatrice advances from the arbour.]
    Coriolanus' exile. Now he's coming,
    For if he be not one that truly loves you,
    For Anjou, and fair Touraine, Maine, Poictiers,
    Here come moe voices.
    Cannot take two from twenty, for his heart,
    Not he that sets his foot upon her back,
                  ALCIBIADES reads the Epitaph
  MACBETH. Fail not our feast.
                 Enter a MESSENGER
  Alack what poverty my muse brings forth,
  Leon. [to the Watch] Bring you these fellows on.--We'll talk with
    Th' estate of my poor queen. Leave me alone,
  GAUNT. No, misery makes sport to mock itself:
    I hope well of to-morrow, and will lead you
    But by your setting on, by your consent?
    And that I owe Olivia.  
  JULIA. He plays false, father.
  Rom. Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron.
    seven, two tree hours for him, and he is no come.
  TIMON. And so am I to you.
  BERTRAM. His good remembrance, sir,
  HUBERT. Is this your promise? Go to, hold your tongue.
    Are all I can return. Beseech your lordship,
  PRINCE JOHN. The heat is past; follow no further now.
    In the extremity of great and little
    Hath so betray'd thine act. Being done unknown,
    Did perish with the infant. 'Tis your counsel

    And hangs on Dian's temple- dear Valeria!
ACT V. SCENE 5.
  ROSALIND. Is yonder the man?
  Jul. Madam, in happy time! What day is that?
    Hop forty paces through the public street;  
    art thou living, Stephano? O Stephano, two Neapolitans
    Since that the truest issue of thy throne
  And tell me how thou hast dispos'd thy charge.
  ROSALINE. Indeed, I weigh not you; and therefore light.
    To study fashions to adorn my body.
    Then old and fond of issue, took such sorrow
    Churchmen so hot? Good uncle, hide such malice;
    A man that ne'er saw in his life before.
  Bene. Is Claudio thine enemy?
    Have I sought every country far and near,
    His forward voice, now, is to speak well of his
    of woe.' O, play me some merry dump to comfort me.
  CROMWELL, servant to Wolsey
    sympathy. You are merry, so am I; ha! ha! then there's
    brother Troilus-
    the jest how my father stole two geese out of a pen, good
    The other three are sealing. Octavia weeps
    That is the butt end of a mother's blessing;
    Perceive I speak sincerely and high notes
    Upon my soul, the hearers will shed tears;
     company. The revenges we are bound to take upon your traitorous
    Wherein my grandsire and my father sat?
    One would have ling'ring wars, with little cost;
  Sweet love renew thy force, be it not said
    He hath whipt with rods; dares me to personal combat,
    I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come!
  MESSENGER. The Queen with all the northern earls and lords
    Did glad my heart with hope of this young Richmond,
    Then I'll sit down. Give me some wine, fill full.
    so oft?
    Have strain'd t' appear thus; if one jot beyond
    Beaumont, Grandpre, Roussi, and Fauconbridge,
    I have seen and heard of; for your voices have
    To learn his wit t' exchange the bad for better.
  CLOWN. Primo, secundo, tertio, is a good play; and the old saying
    Of dear import; and the neglecting it
  MAECENAS. Caesar must think
    By wicked means to frame our sovereign's fall.
    for some hour before you took me from the breach of the sea was  
    Hold! the general speaks to you! Hold, hold, for shame!
    For all this spice of your hypocrisy.
    Even at noonday upon the marketplace,
  By Dromio; but I think he brought it not.
    We have record that very well it can;
    The clogging burden of a guilty soul.
    And that my path were even to the crown,
    from my shoulders.
    I have a king's oath to the contrary.
    Now by my seat's right royal majesty,
    And though myself have been an idle truant,
SCENE II.
    I would not kill thy unprepared spirit.
    Were by his side; sometime he calls the King
    Give so much light that I may read by them.
    To do brave acts. He was indeed the glass
  PISANIO. Not so, neither;
   Into an hour-glass; for the which supply,
    for mine own part, I know not the degree of the Worthy; but I am
    More than three hours the fight continued;
  ADAM. So had you need;
  BRABANTIO. What profane wretch art thou?
  Kent. I will not sleep, my lord, till I have delivered your letter.
    brought] Now, sirrah, if you mean to save yourself from whipping,
    From every meaner man.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Your goods that lay at host, sir, in the Centaur.
    longer than he sees reason, I'll forswear arms. The virtue of
                                         Trumpet answers within.
    And rails, and swears, and rates, that she, poor soul,
    Mine eyes did sicken at the sight and could not
    spotless, if it come to the arbitrement of swords, can try it out
    They swell and grow as terrible as storms.
    But, to the rest.
  Glou. I shall, my liege.
    The more it promises; as it ebbs, the seedsman

    Farewell.                                             Exeunt
  ROSALIND. I do so, I confess it. Ah, sirrah, a body would think
    O my Antonio, I do know of these
  GUIDERIUS. He is but one; you and my brother search
  EDWARD. No quarrel, but a slight contention.
  DARDANIUS,    "    "     "
    And yet wouldst wrongly win. Thou'ldst have, great Glamis,
    To this submission. Yet I well remember
                      Enter a MESSENGER
    Are well foretold that danger lurks within.
  The coward conquest of a wretch's knife,
    Take heed, be wary how you place your words;
                                                         Exeunt.
    Yet I express to you a mother's care.

         Some there be that shadows kiss,
  EMILIA.                          Look, where he comes.
    By adding a tongue which I know will not lie.
    name his name, and tell them plainly he is Snug the joiner.  
    But stand against us like an enemy.
    And for more slander to thy dismal seat,
  PRINCE. I thank you, good my lord, and thank you all.
  KING. Berowne, read it over.        [BEROWNE reads the letter]
    How could he stay till Warwick made return?
  KING RICHARD. As I intend to prosper and repent,

  LUCIO. But, after all this fooling, I would not have it so. Art

    To close the day up, Hector's life is done.
    And for your rapier most especially,
    Than in a politic distance.
    For Edward will defend the town and thee,
    Thou'rt damn'd as black-nay, nothing is so black-
    To cast up with a pair of anchoring hooks,
  Wor. Farewell, kinsman. I will talk to you
    years
    us'd to come so smug upon the mart. Let him look to his bond. He
    As answering to the weight. Would I might never  
    quickly.
  CLOWN. No, sir, the worse.
      March. Drum. Enter Brutus, Cassius, and their Army;
  Rom. Would'st thou withdraw it? For what purpose, love?
    The Jew shall have my flesh, blood, bones, and all,
  MESSALA. Believe not so.
    If these be motives weak, break off betimes,

COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    My mind hath been as big as one of yours,
  To give me ample satisfaction
    Perhaps they had ere this, but that they stay

DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  LAFEU. I saw the man to-day, if man he be.
                      Enter Nurse and her Man [Peter].
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Run, master, run; for God's sake take a house.
    set down our excommunication, and meet me at the jail.
    And ne'er have stol'n the breech from Lancaster.
    finest part of pure love. We cannot call her winds and waters
  BUCKINGHAM. True, noble Prince.
    Presents more woeful pageants than the scene

    they relieved us humanely; but they think we are too dear. The
    He that doth naught with her, excepting one,
  Ham. Saw? who?

     Lest that th' infection of his fortune take
    In sign whereof I pluck a white rose too.
    subject.
    'Commend me to your master' and the cap
    Might in the times to come have ta'en revenge,

    Than wots the miller of; and easy it is
    On payment of a hundred thousand crowns,  
    When those that gave the Thane of Cawdor to me
  And is not that your bondman Dromio?
  COUNTESS. If the living be enemy to the grief, the excess makes it
    Mine and your master-with his own hand gave me;
  DUKE. If his own life answer the straitness of his proceeding, it
    With ribands pendent, flaring 'bout her head;
    You took occasion to be quickly woo'd
  SECOND MURDERER. You shall have wine enough, my lord,
    But that they left me midst my enemies.
    Thou dost beguile me! Was this face the face
    Alas, a crimson river of warm blood,
    Brave York, Salisbury, and victorious Warwick,
  WARWICK. As surely as my soul intends to live
    Is by the stern Lord Clifford done to death.
    That's all I reck.                                      Exit
    The Lord forbid!
    'Ay, by gogs-wouns' quoth he, and swore so loud
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    The ministers for th' purpose hurried thence
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    This, this All-Souls' day to my fearful soul
    Read the will!
    You may not so extenuate his offence
    Where he for grace is kneel'd to.
  TRANIO. Even he, Biondello.
    To give their bed joy and prosperity?
    ALENCON. We'll set thy statue in some holy place,

    After the thing it loves.
    To thee, King John, my holy errand is.
    With all th' applause-and clamour of the host,
Before the house of ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS
  VALENTINE. From Milan.
  BRUTUS. He consul!
    No shape but his can please your dainty eye.
  But let your love even with my life decay.
    Unless you call it good to pity him,
    To show an unfelt sorrow is an office
  SIR TOBY. Th'art a scholar; let us therefore eat and drink.
    Unto some monstrous state.
    It hath already publicly been read,
    Would by a good discourser lose some life
    Your wives shall welcome home the conquerors;
  2. Watch. We charge you in the Prince's name stand!

                     Enter Lodovico and Gratiano.
    bear be gone from the gentleman, and how much he hath eaten. They
  ALL. Peace, ho! Hear Antony, most noble Antony!
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  BEROWNE. Nothing so sure; and thereby all forsworn.
    'A Talbot! a Talbot!' cried out amain,
    Of thy nativity. I would the milk
    For look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died
  EVANS. What is your genitive case plural, William?
  MARIANA. Be rul'd by him.
  OTHELLO. I look down towards his feet; but that's a fable.
    [To SCARUS] Give me thy hand-
    Saturn is dominator over mine.
  PARIS. Hark! Hector's trumpet.
    O peers of England, shameful is this league!
  Am better than thy dear self's better part.
  AJAX. If I go to him, with my armed fist I'll pash him o'er the
    Cousin of Exeter, frowns, words, and threats,
    If this be nothing.
    With divers liquors! O, if this were seen,
    And ring is yours. If not, the foul opinion
  
    your pains.  
    And rather muse than ask why I entreat you;
    Bid him repair to us to Ely House

    Whose virtue and whose general graces speak
    You told us of some suit. What is't, Laertes?

  CORIOLANUS. I muse my mother

    of the war; he hath in this action outdone his former deeds
    That erst did follow thy proud chariot wheels
    So newly join'd in love, so strong in both,
    It hath been prophesied to me many years,  
    That, in this case of justice, my accusers,
  Kent. Give me thy hand. Who's there?
  Dog. Yea, marry, let them come before me. What is your name,
train borne by a LADY; then follows the MARCHIONESS DORSET,
    Though you untie the winds and let them fight
    Troilus the first employer of panders, and a whole book full of
  FRIAR. It rested in your Grace
    They shall have none, I swear, but these my joints;
    Was my great father-in-law, renowned Warwick,

    And thinks he that the chirping of a wren,
  How coldly those impediments stand forth,
    I am the most unhappy woman living.
    Your exposition on the holy text
    That time and place with this deceit so lawful
    Who shut their coward gates on atomies,
     Upon my hateful life. Another way
  Hath put a spirit of youth in every thing:
    Be intelligent to me? 'Tis thereabouts;
  Corn. See't shalt thou never. Fellows, hold the chair.
    Did lately meet in the intestine shock
    Canst with thine eyes at once see good and evil,
    As they fly by them with their woven wings.
    My hand would free her, but my heart says no.
    Who I believe was pack'd in all this wrong,
    More near my life, I fear, with my weak wit,
    The King hath of you.  [Aside]  I have perus'd her well:
    That am a poor and humble subject to you?
    Made it a fool and beggar. The two kings,
  KING EDWARD. Now welcome more, and ten times more belov'd,
  EGEUS. Happy be Theseus, our renowned Duke!
  BRUTUS. Let's to the Capitol,
    And little mouse, every unworthy thing,
    The Noble Percy slain and all his men
    When mistresses from common sense are hid;
  MACBETH. Thou are too like the spirit of Banquo Down!
  Bard. What think you they portend?
    Through Athens I am thought as fair as she.
    The dignity of your office, is the point
    This letter. That's her chamber. Tell my lady
    And Cupid grant all tongue-tied maidens here,
    That monthly changes in her circled orb,  
    That e'er did lift up eye.
  BRUTUS. Talk not of standing. Publius, good cheer,
    Bespake them thus, 'I thank you, countrymen.'
    Rich stuffs, and ornaments of household; which
    Attend the Queen and us; we shall have need
    Where fearing dying pays death servile breath.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  BASTARD. O, I am scalded with my violent motion
  KING JOHN. Gentle kinsman, go
    A cur can lend three thousand ducats?' Or
  ULYSSES. So to him we leave it.
    And with this knife I'll help it presently.
    Love got so sweet as when desire did sue;
    Here comes lean Jack; here comes bare-bone. How now, my sweet
    such as can hold in, such as will strike sooner than speak, and
    imperiously?
  PROSPERO. Twelve year since, Miranda, twelve year since,
  SECOND WATCH. Peace!
  BEROWNE. How low soever the matter, I hope in God for high words.
  COUNTESS. So 'a is. My lord that's gone made himself much  sport
    To his confine; and of the truth herein
  BASSET. Confirm it so, mine honourable lord.
  ANTONY. Villains! You did not so when your vile daggers
     Take thou my soldiers, prisoners, patrimony;
  BAGOT. No; I will to Ireland to his Majesty.

  LUCIUS. Bring down the devil, for he must not die
    stand?
    When she did think my master lov'd her well,

  MESSENGER. First, madam, he is well.
  MISTRESS FORD
    Know, Caesar doth not wrong, nor without cause
    Would the two princes lie? and Claudio lie,
    That I mean to thee. Tell thy mistress how
  If you did wed my sister for her wealth,
  SHALLOW. Barren, barren, barren; beggars all, beggars all, Sir John

  AMIENS. And I'll go seek the Duke; his banquet is prepar'd.
    'Tis like a pardon after execution:
    Then is your cause gone too. The Duke's unjust
    of honesty into English.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. All pride is willing pride, and yours is so.  
    She is dead, belike?
  CASSIO. I think that one of them is hereabout,
    Upon my tongues continual slanders ride,
    To France, sweet Suffolk. Let me hear from thee;
    Your Rome about your ears.
  AUTOLYCUS. And you shall pay well for 'em.
  LORD BARDOLPH. Noble Earl,
    I can no other answer make but thanks,
      Enter one bearing a coronet; then Lear; then the Dukes of
    Of all the voices that we have procur'd,
    And skip when thou point'st out? Will the cold brook,
    For yonder walls, that pertly front your town,  
    th' other senses. I see this is the time that the unjust man doth
    To Cato's daughter, Brutus' Portia.
Capulet's house.
    My residence in Rome at one Philario's,

  KING EDWARD. Well, jest on, brothers; I can tell you both
    I more incline to Somerset than York:
    And they shall do their office. So be gone.  
    Not one of those but had a noble father.
  That Time will come and take my love away.  
  ANNE. Then say they were not slain.
                   [Enter Beatrice.]
    A strumpet's boldness, a divulged shame,
  
    And now be it known to you my full intent:
    Pray do my service to his Majesty;
    Look with a gentle eye upon this wretch!
    That he shuts up himself- imagine me,

    There is an art which in their piedness shares
    You were disguis'd.
    The action of good women; there is hope
  NORTHUMBERLAND. That were some love, but little policy.
    I'll drown you in the malmsey-butt within.
    And even with this I lost fair England's view,
  
    stronger than it was at that time; and, as I said, there is no
    To throw my sceptre at the injurious gods;  
    And made him to resign his crown perforce.
    Were nothing prince-like; for he did provoke me
    As crooked in thy manners as thy shape!
    Yea, every idle, nice, and wanton reason,
  COUNTESS. With all my heart, and think me honoured
  King. Our son shall win.
  STANLEY. The lords at Pomfret, when they rode from

    word, and she knew him as well as I do, she would think scolding

                     151
    and away with the rest.

    But still where danger was, still there I met him;
    And what loss is it to be rid of care?
    For which you are a traitor to the people.
  SECOND LORD. Good my lord,
  WARWICK. Now, by God's will, thou wrong'st him, Somerset;
    Or I'll be buried in the king's high way,
     fear and danger that his personal return was most required and
  GLOUCESTER. The better for the King of Heaven, that hath
    Castle;
    And sigh'd his soul toward the Grecian tents,

    Two other sons, who, in the wars o' th' time,
    Threw off his spirit, his appetite, his sleep,
    Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves,
    The other his pale cheeks, methinks, presenteth.
    souls roared, and the sea mock'd them; and how the poor gentleman
    then with public accusation, uncover'd slander, unmitigated
    By whom I grant she lives. 'Tis now the time
    What's this but libelling against the Senate,

COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  LOVELL. Faith, my lord,
  DESDEMONA.                He found it then;  
                                             [ Giving him money]
    To rain a shower of commanded tears,
    Have letters from me to some friends that will  
    in coming on he has the cramp.
    Though I alone do feel the injury.

    But in a sieve I'll thither sail,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I do not know the matter; he is rested on the case.
    To carry into Flanders the great seal.
    Oft does them by the weakest minister.
    It was both impious and unnatural
    comes blubber'd.- Yea, will you come, Doll?           Exeunt

    I would not spend another such a night
  Beat. Very easily possible. He wears his faith but as the fashion

    She's apt to learn, and thankful for good turns.
    what he puts into the press when he would put us two. I
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE

    But music for the time doth change his nature.  
    In viewing o'er the rest o' the selfsame day,
    As dear to me as are the ruddy drops
  TIMON. Thou flatter'st misery.
    Into the blind cave of eternal night.           Exit CATESBY
    AMAZONS
  Wife. We follow thee.                       Exit [Servingman].
    himself is a virgin; virginity murders itself, and should be

    Your loss is, as yourself, great; and you bear it
    hap.-Cheerly, good hearts!-Out of our way, I say.
    This hand should chop it off, and with the issuing blood
    To meet me at the consecrated fount,
    though now a man of peace.
    My father, King of Spain, was reckon'd one

    action to be guided by others' experiences; but upon my mended
                     Enter another SERVANT
    Now, afore God-God forbid I say true!-
    The orchard walls are high and hard to climb,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  Pedro. Well, we will hear further of it by your daughter. Let it
  WARWICK. Beaufort, it is thy sovereign speaks to thee.
Enter the Constables [Dogberry and Verges] and the Sexton, in gowns,
Enter Macbeth, Seyton, and Soldiers, with drum and colors.
  POLIXENES. Ay, and make it manifest where she has liv'd,
  TALBOT. I go, my lord, in heart desiring still
    Never name to us: you have half our power.
     In such a night as this! O Regan, Goneril!
  OTHELLO. I am to blame.
    To learn the order of my fingering,
  PAULINA. I should so.
    As thou'lt desire; and then myself, I chiefly,
    That ever ear did hear to such effect;
    And that's the dearest grace it renders you-
  DUNCAN. This castle hath a pleasant seat; the air
    Than thou went'st forth in lamentation.
    upon this time have I promis'd here to meet.
    Whom Henry, our late sovereign, ne'er could brook!

  King. The very same.
    When I have walked like a private man-
    What think'st thou? Is it not an easy matter
  HORTENSIO. Her father is Baptista Minola,
    Mine honour lives when his dishonour dies,
  SILVIA. Is she not passing fair?

  When not to be, receives reproach of being,
    The heavy accent of thy moving tongue,
  KING RICHARD. Infer fair England's peace by this alliance.
    That would depopulate the city and
    condition of a man?
    It should be now, but that my fear is this,
    world.
    I have almost slipp'd the hour.
  CLEOPATRA. What is't you say?
    beg during life. But who comes here?
    Accuse some innocent, and forswear myself;
    For still thy eyes, which I may call the sea,
    There shalt thou find the mariners asleep
    With such a zealous laughter, so profound,
    To the house of Signior Baptista Minola?
  I shall beg with it from door to door.
    More than cool reason ever comprehends.
    than forty pound I were at home.
    The which he hath detain'd for lewd employments
  PORTIA. I thank you for your wish, and am well pleas'd


    counsel. I will run, fiend; my heels are at your commandment; I
    Which make such wanton gambols with the wind
    Arm, fight, and conquer, for fair England's sake!
    I can create the rest. Virtue and she
  As every alien pen hath got my use,

    As if the vicar meant to cozen him.
  Glou. Let go my hand.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  SERVANT. Madam, the young gentleman of the Count Orsino's is
    A man of thy profession and degree;
  SIR TOBY. Good night, Penthesilea.
    what place, I pray?
    O Lord, I cannot speak to him for weeping;
    Of what we think against thee.
  CLOWN. No, madam, I do but read madness. An your ladyship will have
    Perform'd to point the tempest that I bade thee?
  DUKE. Seek him out, and play the tune the while.
    judge, but most willingly humbles himself to the determination of
  Who put unluckily into this bay
  MARCUS. Alas, my lord, I have but kill'd a fly.
    That when I am in heaven I shall desire
    Strike, as thou didst at Caesar, for I know,
  PORTIA. For the intent and purpose of the law
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
    Whom I will marry straight to Clarence' daughter-
  KING. I know thee not, old man. Fall to thy prayers.
  Prince. O God! they did me too much injury
    Cassius or Caesar never shall turn back,

    Do not throw from you. And you, my lords, farewell;
    Do crave admittance to your Majesty.
    His land then seiz'd on by the conqueror.
  ROSALIND. Then there is no true lover in the forest, else sighing
             By the triple Hecate's team
    Our person misdoubts it: 'twas treason, he said.
  CASSIO.                          Go to, woman!
  AGUECHEEK. And I think I have the back-trick simply as strong as
    for it is plain pocketing up of wrongs. I must leave them and
  Hor. Hail to your lordship!
  CRESSIDA. By all Diana's waiting women yond,
    The barge she sat in, like a burnish'd throne,
    as it were, in via, in way, of explication; facere, as it were,
    And will not let me welcome this good news.
    I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
  TITUS. O, O, O!
    sack to give me recourse to him, and tell him my name is

  VIRGILIA. No, good madam, pardon me; indeed I will not forth.
    As 'twere my daughter's eyes; and, to be plain,

    The moist impediments unto my speech,
    As good to chide the waves as speak them fair.
 Exit
    Hers by thy beauty tempting her to thee,
    In them and in ourselves our safety lies.
    daughter, as if that joy were now become a loss, cries 'O, thy
    certain as I expect my revenge. That part thou, Pisanio, must act
    [To Dumain] And Jove for your love would infringe an oath.
    And thou shalt live as freely as thy lord
                   Enter Benvolio and Romeo.
    Regard thy danger, and along with me.
  Fal. Well, thou wilt be horribly chid to-morrow when thou comest to
                    Enter FLAVIUS and two SENATORS
    Went all afoot in summer's scalding heat,
    Out, you green-sickness carrion I out, you baggage!
    Had I so lavish of my presence been,
  BASSANIO. Good signiors both, when shall we laugh? Say when.

SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    And by thy guess how nigh is Clarence now?
    Not that I have the power to clutch my hand
    this?
  ANTONIO. His word is more than the miraculous harp.
    'Tis not an hour since I left them there.
   A fearful battle rend'red you in music.
    The flinty ribs of this contemptuous city.
    But to the earth some special good doth give;
    To build at all? Much more, in this great work-
  IAGO. O notable strumpet! Cassio, may you suspect
    Lie graveless, till the flies and gnats of Nile
    killing.
    branch of victory. Have you no song, forester, for this purpose?
  AUSTRIA. What cracker is this same that deafs our ears
    Had he been slain, we should have heard the news;
    You tender more your person's honour than
  For such a time do I now fortify
    matter.
  MALVOLIO. [Reads]
    food to feed it as Signior Benedick? Courtesy itself must convert  
    Be pleas'd that I shake off these names you give me:
 CHORUS. O for a Muse of fire, that would ascend
    There is Douglas and Lord Mortimer.
    A long time out of play, may bring his plainsong  
  STEPHANO. I prithee now, lead the way without any more
  King. Conceit upon her father.
  Pol. Look, whe'r he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's
  PHILOSTRATE. No, my noble lord,
  KING EDWARD. Clarence and Gloucester, love my lovely queen;
    Black as the ink that's on thee! Senseless bauble,
  And sweetens, in the suff'ring pangs it bears,
                          SCENE:
  BAPTISTA. Was ever gentleman thus griev'd as I?
    Come as the gods foresay it. Howsoe'er,
    What is unsettled in the King.
    trow,
  BRABANTIO, Venetian Senator, father of Desdemona
  HOST. Thou'rt an emperor-Caesar, Keiser, and Pheazar. I
    I think it is the weakness of mine eyes
    There, where we see the lights.
  SPEED. Why, then, this may be yours; for this is but one.
    When I am in my coach, which stays for us
    You urg'd me as a judge; but I had rather
  TITUS. I am not bid to wait upon this bride.
    Three Dukes of Somerset, threefold renown'd
  CLEOPATRA. He was dispos'd to mirth; but on the sudden
    How should I be reveng'd?
    As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
    how much an ounce.
    thereabouts' set down, for I'll speak truth.
  MARIA. Go shake your ears.
                     83
    services by leaving me now. The need I have of thee thine own
                                      Exeunt King and Polonius].
    Who, you all know, are honorable men.
  EMILIA. Good madam, do. I warrant it grieves my husband
                                              [Sad and solemn music]
    Against the irregular and wild Glendower,
                      The Song.
    I am thy grandam, Richard: call me so.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I answer you! What should I answer you?
  MESSENGER. From France to England. Never such a pow'r
Enter, from the cave, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS, and IMOGEN
  Ham. Good sir, whose powers are these?
    I never gave it him. Send for him hither;
    And many a man there is, even at this present,
    Made senseless things begin to do them wrong,
  RICHARD. Brother, though I be youngest, give me leave.
SCENE VII.
    for they purpose not their death when they purpose their
    Now crack thy lungs and split thy brazen pipe;
  SUFFOLK. Come, soldiers, show what cruelty ye can,  
    shovel-boards that cost me two shilling and two pence apiece
    Commit'st thy anointed body to the cure
    thus much for greeting. Now, my spruce companions, is all ready,  
    As yet not come to life, who in their seeds
    knight?
    It is decreed Hector the great must die.                   Exeunt
  My life hath in this line some interest,
    Than crave the hire which first we do deserve.
    Take but good note, and you shall see in him
     And ask of thee forgiveness. So we'll live,
    And so she shall: Lucentio shall make one,
  KING. Thou hast spoken all already, unless thou canst say they are
    Make her amends; she weeps.
  BEROWNE. I'll prove her fair, or talk till doomsday here.
    And therefore, like herself, wise, fair, and true,
    If so, my eyes are oft'ner wash'd than hers.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. By running fast.
    In every one of these no man is free
    Will live as maids and widows. Come, away;
  TITUS. Agree between you; I will spare my hand.
    Which here we came to spout against your town,
  CASSIUS. I wish we may, but yet have I a mind
    But if there be not in our Grecian mould
     this, let him be whipp'd that first finds it so.
  VALENTINE, one of the two gentlemen
  QUEEN KATHARINE. My learn'd Lord Cardinal,
  TRANIO. Not possible; for who shall bear your part  
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    And he is furnish'd with no certainties
    advantage thee more than ever the bearing of letter did.
    To say I am thy mother? What's the matter,
    A guide, a goddess, and a sovereign,
                                                  Exit Margaret.
  CAMPEIUS. The Queen is obstinate,
    Theirs for their style I'll read, his for his love'.
    Marking th' embarked traders on the flood;
    Especially for those occasions
  LEWIS. Outside or inside, I will not return
    this world with treachery and devise engines for my life.
  Laer. A Norman was't?
     Prove our commodities. Ah dear son Edgar,
    Save when command to your dismission tends,
ADRIANA. Ay, ay, Antipholus, look strange and frown.
    His silver skin laced with his golden blood,
    Foretelling this same time's condition
  Lords, Ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Messengers, Attendants
    sir,- it comes from th' ambassador that was bound for England- if
  OTHELLO, the Moor, general of the Venetian forces
    My supreme crown of grief! and those repeated
  Their kind acceptance weepingly beseeched,
  Blunt. And God defend but still I should stand so,
    Is cold in amity and painted peace,
    Without observance or respect of any,
    And has done half an hour, to know your pleasures.
    For thou hast shown some sign of good desert-
  CYMBELINE. Nay, let her languish  
  GRUMIO. And that his bags shall prove.
    First, that without the King's assent or knowledge
    Shall wound my honour with such feeble wrong
    No better than a sty? O, see, my women,        [Antony dies]
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Or hitherwards intended speedily,
    Yet again! What do you here? Shall we give o'er, and
  MENAS. [Aside] For this,
    And given my treasures and my rights of thee
    I say thy husband. Dost understand the word?
    Pray God, sir, your wife send you not a worse.
    And I the rather wean me from despair  
    Durst thou have look'd upon him being awake,
    That I should wish for thee to help me curse
    And like a jolly troop of huntsmen come
                                                    [Also stabs]
     whoreson must be acknowledged.- Do you know this noble gentleman,
    I never wish'd to see you sorry; now
    This night the siege assuredly I'll raise.
    out at the window.

    Leaving the fight in height, flies after her.
    Descended of so many royal kings.
    Shall we fall foul for toys?
     Thou'dst meet the bear i' th' mouth. When the mind's free,
                                  [Sound a flourish, with drums]
    Then if you fight against God's enemy,
  EDWARD. Sweet Duke of York, our prop to lean upon,
    Where hast thou been preserv'd? Where liv'd? How found
    [Aside]  One that goes with him. I love him for his sake;
  MARIANA. Good friar, I know you do, and have found it.
LUCIANA. Dromio, go bid the servants spread for dinner.
    Make boot of his distraction. Never anger
    the Jew my master, who- God bless the mark!- is a kind of devil;
  King. Pretty Ophelia!
    From France?
         By his cockle bat and' staff
    Because she will not be annoy'd with suitors.
    Call it not patience, Gaunt-it is despair;

  hot breath of Spain; who sent whole armadoes of caracks to be
    Pertaining thereunto-as fights and fireworks;  
    That what he will he does, and does so much
  The argument all bare is of more worth
    Above the reach or compass of thy thought?
  CORIOLANUS. What must I do?
    Your breath first kindled the dead coal of wars
    it.
    And their rough carriage so ridiculous,
    Under the hatches; the master and the boatswain  
  Lear. You nimble lightnings, dart your blinding flames
    To take a note of what I stand in need of
    writing to the person written unto: 'Your Ladyship's in all
  MRS. FORD. } Away, away.
  SILVIA. A pretty period! Well, I guess the sequel;
    With all kind love, good thoughts, and reverence.

  Thy self away, art present still with me,
    About him, fairies; sing a scornful rhyme;
    Strangle such thoughts as these with any thing
    That know the strong'st and surest way to get.
    As on a pillory, looking through the lute,  
  Prince. Nay, but hark you, Francis. For the sugar thou gavest me-
     We scarcely think our miseries our foes.
    Is but for two months victuall'd.- So to your pleasures;
  KING. Where did you buy it? Or who gave it you?
       his coat of arms, and on his head he wore a gilt copper
  CALIBAN.  [Aside]  These be fine things, an if they be not
    And bid them bring the trumpets to the gate;
    Of his return. He answered 'Do not so;
  MENENIUS. A good demand.
    On the fair Cressid.
    My heart beats thicker than a feverous pulse,
    All is the fear and nothing is the love;
    a kind of alacrity in sinking; if the bottom were as deep as
  PROTEUS. I will.                                Exit VALENTINE
    Windsor, whoe'er be the other; and she bade me tell your
  EVANS. Why, this is lunatics. This is mad as a mad dog.
  Two Clowns, gravediggers.
    And, being anger'd, puffs away from thence,
              Do nothing but eat and make good cheer,
  MACBETH. I heard a voice cry, "Sleep no more!
  And loathsome canker lives in sweetest bud.
    We do deliver you. Get you therefore hence,
  MENENIUS. Not according to the prayer of the people, for they love
    In mine own comforts. I prithee, good Iago,
    Ah ha, my mistresses! which of you all
  LUCIUS. I'll look you out a good turn, Servilius.
    Kindled with unchaste desire,
        JOHN with my brothers and sisters, and SIR JOHN with  
    Which, like a mighty whiffler, fore the King

  MESSENGER. I humbly do entreat your Highness' pardon;
    Bestride the rock; the tide will wash you off,
  CORIOLANUS. Stand fast;  
    As she liv'd now.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  you, sir, like an evil angel, and bid you forsake your liberty.
  DUCHESS.  [To DORSET]  Go thou to Richmond, and good
  SURREY. Will this work?
    your master's desires to Mistress Anne Page. I pray you
    Is this: she hath bought the name of whore thus dearly.
    A style for challengers. Why, she defies me,
  SILVIA. Servant!
    Thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate,
    Will serve our long interrogatories. See,
Enter Edgar.
                                       The KING retires attended
    I should do Brutus wrong and Cassius wrong,
    should do theirs, to ask for my kinsman Toby-
    Brook-I suffered the pangs of three several deaths: first,
  Alb. Let's then determine
    The state of your affection; for your passions
  AJAX. You dog!
  CAMILLO. Have you thought on
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Therefore I do it; and I make no doubt
  Alb. The gods defend her! Bear him hence awhile.
                                     [Lays his hand on his head]
    unkindness is to them; if they suffer our departure, death's the
      it at WARWICK]
    As often as I guess'd.

  FALSTAFF. O, she did so course o'er my exteriors with such
    As thou art match'd withal and grafted to,
    That skins the vice o' th' top. Go to your bosom,
         The cuckoo then on every tree
    year.
  IAGO. How do you, Cassio? O, a chair, a chair!
    Who, as I hear, mean to solicit him
  LAFEU. Lustig, as the Dutchman says. I'll like a maid the better,
    This Jacob from our holy Abram was,
    Within me grief hath kept a tedious fast;
    And now am I, unhappy messenger,  
    For I myself at this time have employ'd him.  
SCENE:
    star of a galliard.
    That bows unto the grave with mickle age.  
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  ANTONY. Good night, sir. My Octavia,
    a man or two lately kill'd about her.
    Glamis thou art, and Cawdor, and shalt be
  HOSTESS. Master Fang, have you ent'red the action?
Westminster. The palace
    The mirth o' th' feast. Or I'll be thine, my fair,

  KING. Peace!
  ANGELO. Yea.
  Thus policy in love t' anticipate
    hath the joints of every thing; but everything so out of joint
    Upon Sir Toby and the lighter people;
     My worthy arch and patron, comes to-night.
    Some stay to see him fast'ned in the earth.
    The Queen, the courtiers. Who is this they follow?
    Falsely to take away a life true made
    Hast thou not kiss'd thy hand and held my stirrup,
    In iron walls they deem'd me not secure;
  KING JOHN.  [To ARTHUR]  For England, cousin, go;
    And try the argument of hearts by borrowing,
    beguile me of it. I bought you a dozen of shirts to your back.
    That I did love thee, Caesar, O, 'tis true!
    Left to be finished by such as she;
  SLENDER. So I do, sir.
  COUNTESS. He was famous, sir, in his profession, and it was his
    Fair, kind, and true, have often lived alone.
     Though I condemn it not, yet, under pardon,
    This man hath my consent to marry her.
  OCTAVIUS CAESAR,         "
    I will not entertain so bad a thought.
    'Tis said the stout Parisians do revolt

    sentenc'd himself.
     Rather than die at once!) taught me to shift
    sister; we are gone else. Sir, I will give you as much as this
    A federary with her, and one that knows
  ANOTHER LORD. I task the earth to the like, forsworn Aumerle;
    down my dilemmas, encourage myself in my certainty, put myself
                        Exeunt BASSIANUS and MARCUS with LAVINIA
  Bard. 'Sblood, I would my face were in your belly!
  SHALLOW. 'A shall answer it. Some pigeons, Davy, a couple of
  LION. [Roaring] O-                           [THISBY runs off]
    To win thy after-love I pardon thee.
  SUFFOLK. O that I were a god, to shoot forth thunder
    Whom I proclaim a man of truth, of mercy.
    Remember in my prayers.
    And yet I will not name it- and yet I care not.
  BEROWNE. Allons! allons! Sow'd cockle reap'd no corn,
    For every man with his affects is born,
    For we will shake him, or worse days endure.           Exit.

    And am well studied for a liberal thanks
    To many lords and ladies; there will be
    With slight denial, nor then silenc'd when
    She will not come; she bids you come to her.
      If broken, then it is no fault of mine;
    In a most hideous and dreadful manner.
<Exeunt ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE and DROMIO OF SYRACUSE to the priory
    Fates open their hands; let thy blood and spirit embrace them;
    But, being season'd with a gracious voice,
    And makes her pew-fellow with others' moan!
  VIOLA. Madam?
  MESSENGER. The Count Melun is slain; the English lords
    You must prepare your bosom for his knife.
  BEROWNE. Pompey the Great!
  AENEAS. And thou shalt hunt a lion, that will fly
  SUFFOLK. You bade me ban, and will you bid me leave?
  IAGO.                Should you do so, my lord,

  ANTONIO. To th' Elephant.
    With bonds of death! Remain, remain thou here  
    By me that's said or done amiss this night,
    Were you in my stead, would you have heard
  DUKE OF VENICE. Sir, I entreat you home with me to dinner.
     No less than life, with grace, health, beauty, honour;
  THIRD WITCH. There to meet with Macbeth.
    Or die a soldier as I liv'd a king.
     Commit a thing so monstrous to dismantle
  went, like a bass-viol, in a case of leather; the man, sir,
    within]  What shouts are these? The other side o' th' city is
    Of every fool, whose sense no more can feel
    And spread they shall be, to thy foul disgrace  
    For wisdom's sake, a word that all men love;
    Do chase the ebbing Neptune, and do fly him
    His access to me.
    expectation.
           By swaggering could I never thrive,
    Nor heel the high lavolt, nor sweeten talk,
    LUCULLUS
    That, ere the next Ascension-day at noon,
    That none of you may live his natural age,
    The hate I bare thee made me leave thee so?
  CAMILLO. How now, good fellow! Why shak'st thou so?
    To his full height. On, on, you noblest English,

    Abroad? Why, then, women are more valiant,
  TROILUS. Ay, Greek; and that shall be divulged well
    As one that had been studied in his death,
    We follow'd then our lord, our sovereign king.
    Is that by sudden floods and fall of waters
    I bade the rascal knock upon your gate,
  LUCIUS. Varro and Claudio!
  BONA. My quarrel and this English queen's are one.
    Our hard-rul'd King. Again, there is sprung up
  KING. Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more;
    Mend 'em, for shame, my lords. Is this your comfort?
    same abundance as your good fortunes are; and yet, for aught I
  
  Hath almost made me traitor to myself;
  LAUNCELOT. Tell him there's a post come from my master with his
    Upon thy stars, thy fortune, and thy strength,
    for Peter!

  PROTEUS. What, didst thou offer her this from me?
    Whilst with no softer cushion than the flint
    Go get thee to thy love, as was decreed,
    But stay, I'll read it over once again.
  Mar. Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
  FALSTAFF. Why, I will.
    itself, which could not be her office to say is come, was
    To eat with us to-night; the charge and thanking
    away thy cold; and I will take such order that thy friends shall
    To make this contract grow; but barren hate,
    I should not see the sandy hour-glass run
     CARDINAL BEAUFORT, BUCKINGHAM, YORK, SOMERSET, SALISBURY,
    Where hast thou been, my heart? Dost thou hear, lady?
    We must have bloody noses and crack'd crowns,
  Jul. O serpent heart, hid with a flow'ring face!
   And in regard of causes now in hand,
    But, ass, I'll take that burden from your back,
    do nothing but rail; nor no railing in known discreet man, though
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    With a bare bodkin? Who would these fardels bear,
    That all the world besides methinks are dead.
    And, that thou mayst perceive my fear of this,
    You did continue fault, and that you slipp'd not
    Against thy oath and true allegiance sworn,
              Enter OLIVIA and ATTENDANTS
    A shadow like an angel, with bright hair
  Mon. I would thou wert so happy by thy stay
    I prithee but repair to me next morning.
    hour, if I may come to th' speech of him.
  SUFFOLK. Nay, Gloucester, know that thou art come too soon,
  Doth part his function, and is partly blind,
  CLARENCE. Because my name is George.
    four foot by the squire further afoot, I shall break my wind.
    he shall not knit a knot in his fortunes with the finger of
    It hath the excuse of youth and heat of blood,
  LORD BARDOLPH. It was, my lord; who lin'd himself with hope,
                            Here they rob and bind them. Exeunt.
    For giving it to me. Well, peace be with you!

Alarum within. Enter, with Drum and Colours, the Powers of France
             Where it fits not you to know.
    Ere death dare come to us? How do you, women?

  Edm. Know of the Duke if his last purpose hold,
    And you but waste your words.
  CAESAR. No more than my residing here at Rome
                                         [He whispers to the maskers]
    Listen great things. Brutus and Cassius
  BRUTUS. I know that we shall have him well to friend.
  CASSIUS. What, durst not tempt him?
  By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.
  Mer. No hare, sir; unless a hare, sir, in a lenten pie, that is
    rushling, I warrant you, in silk and gold; and in such alligant
    Pembroke, look to 't. Farewell, Chatillon.
  PISANIO. Alas, good lady!
    And where this breach now in our fortunes made
    Say, can you fast? Your stomachs are too young,
    To be another's fool. I would be gone.

    What harm a wind too great might do at sea.
     This office to you.
  ANGELO. The heavens give safety to your purposes!
    The which shall turn you to no further harm
  SECOND MURTHERER. We shall, my lord,
    your honour mark his face?
    Becomes thee well enough.
  Prince. Thou say'st true, hostess, and he slanders thee most
  TIMON. Nor on the beasts themselves, the birds, and fishes;
  
                Alarum. Enter AENEAS
  Ham. I will watch to-night.
  Thomas Percy, Earl of Worcester.
  LORD. O monstrous beast, how like a swine he lies!
        Knocks go and come; God's vassals drop and die;
  DESDEMONA. Can anything be made of this?
    If it were so, it was a grievous fault,
  Bene. Well, every one can master a grief but he that has it.
  TOUCHSTONE. Why, do not your courtier's hands sweat? And is not the
    you from your prize, and have it; yea, and can show it you here
    Than Marchioness of Pembroke; to which tide
  BATES. He may show what outward courage he will; but I believe, as
     You shall do well; the fault of it I'll answer.
    Who's that that bears the sceptre?
    You are welcome, gentlemen! Come, musicians, play.
                    Exit, weeping, followed by BIANCA and others
    To such a greeting. Villain am I none.
    counterpoise of so great an opposition.' Say you so, say you so?
    And therefore law shall scorn him further trial
    And so I love and honour thee and thine,
    Bear her this jewel, pledge of my affection.
    I have this day receiv'd a traitor's judgment,
    When as the enemy hath been ten to one;
  TOUCHSTONE. According to the fool's bolt, sir, and such dulcet
    Unless to dub thee with the name of traitor.
    Thieves! Thieves!
    fruitful meal would set me to't. But they say the Duke will be
  POSTHUMUS. Hang there like fruit, my soul,
    fury? Shall the elephant Ajax carry it thus? He beats me, and I
    Tie up the libertine in a field of feasts,
  Make sweet some vial; treasure thou some place,

  QUICKLY. Ay, forsooth; and, I pray, how does good Mistress Anne?
  Ham. They are coming to the play. I must be idle.  
     Got 'tween asleep and wake? Well then,
    And, if thou canst for blushing, view this face,
  In brief the grounds and motives of her woe.
    He'll grant the tribute, send th' arrearages,
    Lay on my bed my wedding sheets. Remember,
    Refuse it not; it hath no tongue to vex you.
    With over-weather'd ribs and ragged sails,
  CASSIUS. Brutus, this sober form of yours hides wrongs,
    To pay him tribute and submit thyself,
    Cry "Caesar." Speak, Caesar is turn'd to hear.
                     Enter [Oswald the] Steward.
    Yond Cassius has a lean and hungry look;
    I would not part a bachelor from the priest.
    of request. Virginity, like an old courtier, wears her cap out of
  The ship is in her trim; the merry wind
         She excels each mortal thing
    and to lurch; and yet you, rogue, will ensconce your rags,
  CARLISLE. That honourable day shall never be seen.
    serious designs, and of great import indeed, too- but let that
  Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come.
             What's to come is still unsure.

  To change your day of youth to sullied night,

         But my outside to behold.
  CANIDIUS. Soldier, thou art; but his whole action grows
 Exit
              Attendants with foils and gauntlets.

                                                 [Exit Horatio.]  
  BARDOLPH
                         Re-enter RUGBY
    On both our parts. Call yonder fellow hither.
  GLOUCESTER. I know so. But, gentle Lady Anne,
    And Walter's dagger was not come from sheathing;
  Cham. Good morrow, Master Gadshill. It holds current that I told
  LAFEU. His Highness comes post from Marseilles, of as able body as
    He lessens his requests and to thee sues
  Hor. Half a share.
    of our prosperity.
    There let him stand and rave and cry for food.
    They never do beget a coal-black calf.
    Nor doth he dedicate one jot of colour
    Weigh you the worth and honour of a king,
    breed-bate; his worst fault is that he is given to prayer; he is
    Nor will I sue, although the King have mercies
    say, one that takes upon him to be a dog indeed, to be, as it
                                     [CLIFFORD groans, and dies]
    Let die the spotted.
  GRUMIO. First know my horse is tired; my master and mistress fall'n
  PROTEUS. She did, my lord, when Valentine was here.
  Glou. Away, and let me die.
  KING HENRY. Brother, we shall. Go, uncle Exeter,
  APEMANTUS. Yes, he is worthy of thee, and to pay thee for thy
    That Lady Margaret do vouchsafe to come
    Before I saw you; and the world's large tongue
                    Enter the DUKE OF YORK
  MIRANDA. 'Tis a villain, sir,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  CYMBELINE. My lords, you are appointed for that office;
    rogue, away! I am meat for your master.

  EMILIA. I know not, madam.
  Bene. And therefore will come.  

    difficulty imposed. This is the monstruosity in love, lady, that
  LEWIS. Fair Queen of England, worthy Margaret,
    To help to take her from her borrowed grave,

    Madding my eagerness with her restraint,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  FLUELLEN. Ay, leeks is good. Hold you, there is a groat to heal
    my wife, be reveng'd on Falstaff, and laugh at Page.
    Your boldest suit of mirth, for we have friends
    I am but sorry, not afeard; delay'd,
    love? I could. Shall I entreat thy love? I will. What shalt thou
    Searching the window for a flint I found
  WARWICK. It is reported, mighty sovereign,
    We'll leave you for this time. Go in and rest.
    I am hitherto your daughter. But here's my husband,
    Sweet is the country, because full of riches;
    My ancient incantations are too weak,


    What cannoneer begot this lusty blood?
    Have I lik'd several women, never any
  HASTINGS. 'Tis better using France than trusting France.
  Fool. All thy other titles thou hast given away; that thou wast
    Which is to me some praise that I thy parts admire.
    Submit thee, boy.
    truth of it. He came of an errand to me from Parson Hugh.
    search'd it; but Fate, ordaining he should be a cuckold,
    It is a cause worthy my spleen and fury,
    Serv'd well for Rome-
    May justly diet me. I pray you yet-
  VOLUMNIA. On's brows, Menenius, he comes the third time home with
  FIRST LADY. Blue, my lord.
  RICHARD. Arm'd as we are, let's stay within this house.
    Ruthful to hear, yet piteously perform'd;
    Say it did so a little time before
A cavern. In the middle, a boiling cauldron. Thunder.
  CASSIUS. Therefore, good Brutus, be prepared to hear,
    orchard.
  SPIRIT. Let him shun castles:

    Which I am proud to bear.
    To rain upon remembrance with mine eyes,

    Where mine his thoughts did kindle- that our stars,
    But that my noble master will appear
    Our bloods are now in calm; and so long health!
  MAYOR. Yes, my lord, if it please your Grace.  
    I will go there and do't, i' th' court, before
    Were I not old. Know, Claudio, to thy head,
    To teeming foison, even so her plenteous womb
    For what had he to do to chide at me?
    'Tis south the city mills- bring me word thither

    Cold biting winter mars our hop'd-for hay.
  SECOND GUARD. All dead.
    Killing in relapse of mortality.
    Hal'd out to murder; myself on every post
  Pedro. I'll tell thee how Beatrice prais'd thy wit the other day. I
  DUKE. But shall you on your knowledge find this way?
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    For all the Welshmen, hearing thou wert dead,  
    I love to cope him in these sullen fits,
    Wilt thou not speak to me?

  Came tripping by, but in her maiden hand,
    Deny it to a king? Then, happy low, lie down!
    persuaded him the youth's a devil.
    Like peasant foot-boys do they keep the walls,
    Upon the King! Let us our lives, our souls,
    And deeper than oblivion do we bury
  LUCIUS. Give us the proudest prisoner of the Goths,
    That show, contain, and nourish, all the world,
    I give to baser life. So, have you done?
  GLOUCESTER. Naught to do with Mistress Shore! I tell thee,

  AEDILE. I shall inform them.
                  Re-enter the.AEDILE,with the plebeians
                                [The BROTHER and the SONS kneel]
    none must know but the King; and which he shall know within this
    father is so sick; and keeping such vile company as thou art hath
    Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib
  AENEAS. Good morrow, lord, good morrow.
   He takes up Hotspur on his hack. [Enter Prince, and John of
                         Enter LAUNCELOT
  CLEOPATRA. Where is the fellow?

    To what we wildly do, so we profess
  SALISBURY. Our griefs, and not our manners, reason now.  
  ALL. Content, content.                         Exeunt citizens
    our answer.
  HOST. I tell you what Launce, his man, told me: he lov'd her out of
  CAESAR. Will this description satisfy him?  
    Loath to depose the child, your brother's son;
  KING EDWARD. My love, forbear to fawn upon their frowns.
    Which the proud soul ne'er pays but to the proud.
    Because that John hath made his peace with Rome?
  EMILIA. You shall not write my praise.
    Shall these enjoy our lands? lie with our wives,
  SHYLOCK. What, are there masques? Hear you me, Jessica:
    And call us orphans, wretches, castaways,
    Will in his brinish bowels swallow him.
     Of the selfsame metal that my sister is,
    A scaly gauntlet now with joints of steel
    Either from Venice or some unhatch'd practice
    I pardon him.

  PUCELLE. Come, come, 'tis only I that must disgrace thee.
    The letter was not nice, but full of charge,
    in here before your good honour two notorious benefactors.
  MRS. FORD. Why, what have you to do whither they bear it?
  THIRD SERVANT. I would not be a Roman, of all nations;
    The Duke of Suffolk, William de la Pole.
    Is to be made, then shall this hand and seal
    Patron of virtue, Rome's best champion,
    Been justled from your senses, know for certain
    But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
    After my seeming. The tide of blood in me
  OLIVIA. Ay, husband; can he that deny?
    Whereto the climber-upward turns his face;

  Ben. For what, I pray thee?
    Spur to the rescue of the noble Talbot,
    Whose state and honour I for aye allow.
    He might have took his answer long ago.
    should quickly have been out, I warrant you. I dare draw as soon
                                      [Snatches Romeo's dagger.]
  Pedro. He doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit.  
Before PROSPERO'S cell
    dote upon a man: surely I think you have charms, la! Yes,
    All offices of nature should again
  Reg. Be simple-answer'd, for we know the truth.
    Where Reignier sooner will receive than give.
    Well, now can I make any Joan a lady.
  To what it works in, like the dyer's hand:
    Shall be a wall sufficient to defend
    What dar'st thou venture?
    Dare bite the best. I do beseech your lordships
    antiquity, too; bawd-born. Farewell, good Pompey. Commend me to

    God on our side, doubt not of victory.
    Shall dye your white rose in a bloody red.
  BRUTUS. Lay
    I cannot choose but ever weep the friend.
    again; but those that understood him smiled at one another and
    presentation of that he shoots his wit:
     The King is coming.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Not I, sir; you are my elder.
  VOLUMNIA. He'll beat Aufidius' head below his knee
    And bide the penance of each three years' day.  
  DUKE. Do you persuade yourself that I respect you?
  CRANMER. I hope I am not too late; and yet the gentleman

    But we the doers.
  AARON.  [Aside]  Pray to the devils; the gods have given us over.
    O that I could but can these dead to life!
    fool. One woman is fair, yet I am well; another is wise, yet I am
  CASSIO. My leg is cut in two.  
  Poins. Come, shelter, shelter! I have remov'd Falstaff's horse, and
    better leer than you.
                     54
    Have but their stings and teeth newly ta'en out;
    Us'd to command, untaught to plead for favour.
    Of Sycorax, toads, beetles, bats, light on you!
    After his patient's death: the King already
    And we will not, heaven's offer we refuse,
  FLUELLEN. Captain Macmorris, when there is more better opportunity
    Add thereto a tiger's chawdron,
    But yesternight; when all athwart there came  
    As you do love your lady Silvia.
    Hold, Tybalt! Good Mercutio!
  MACDUFF. Stands Scotland where it did?
    In hugger-mugger to inter him; Poor Ophelia
    And Duke of Buckingham; now, poor Edward Bohun.
    we that have good wits have much to answer for: we shall be
    Leap to these arms untalk'd of and unseen.
    shadow and silence in it; and the place answer to convenience.
    When nights are longest there; I'll take my leave,
    Warrant me welcome to my Proteus.
    As I in duty love my king and country!
  CLEOPATRA. I dreamt there was an Emperor Antony-
  SOMERSET. Cousin of Buckingham, though Humphrey's pride
    Hear patiently my purpose. I'll disrobe me
  The ornament of beauty is suspect,
    To look with forehead bold and big enough
    Some trumpet summon hither to the walls
    As I will lend you cause, my doing well
    Assured loss before the match be play'd.
  Pol. I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord.
    Shall mark my grave. Commend me to his Grace;
    And therefore frame the law unto my will.
                     Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
  WARWICK. We have, my liege.
    And of a dragon and a finless fish,
  DUKE. You can fool no more money out of me at this throw; if you
  Con. Masters, masters--
    pierce like mine.                                       Exit
  ANTONIO. Here, Lord Bassanio, swear to keep this ring.
  PORTER. Marry, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and urine. Lechery, sir,
  that must eat with the devil.
    And Holdfast is the only dog, my duck.
    For they have grudged us contribution.
    Successively from age to age, he built it?
    As things acquainted and familiar to us;
  The beasts, the fishes, and the winged fowls,
    end.                                          [Exit guarded]
     Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never
  HASTINGS. And though we here fall down,
    Hath crawl'd into the favour of the King,
  CASCA. He doth, for he did bid Antonio

  OBERON. Sound, music. Come, my Queen, take hands with me,
    To put him quite besides his patience.
    hands of him.
  WILLIAM. Forsooth, I have forgot.
  CAESAR. Come hither, Proculeius. Go and say
    As we rate boys who, being mature in knowledge,
           Now die, die, die, die, die.                   [Dies]
    make incision in thee! thou art raw.
    Had he the motive and the cue for passion
  FOURTH CITIZEN. Caesar's better parts
    Unwieldy, slow, heavy and pale as lead.  
    Look on her, mark her well; be but about
    own ears. The worst that they can say of me is that I am a second
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    That she may long live here, God say Amen!            Exeunt
  Lear. Woe that too late repents!- O, sir, are you come?
    You stand upon the rivage and behold
    Now forth, Lord Constable and Princes all,
    on, the faster it grows, yet youth, the more it is wasted, the
    their variance. Antony will use his affection where it is; he
  So flatter I the swart-complexioned night,
  LADY MACDUFF. Poor prattler, how thou talk'st!
  BEROWNE. Thou knowest not what it is.
  MRS. PAGE. What? Thou liest. Sir Alice Ford! These knights
  DEMETRIUS. Is Caesar with Antonius priz'd so slight?
    And durst not once peep out.
  Prince. Well, here is my leg.

    One ever near thee. Call for Enobarbus,

                                         Exeunt Desdemona and Emilia.
    What charitable men afford to beggars.
    To square for this? Would it offend you, then,
    What is the trust or strength of foolish man?
SCENE: England
  LUCIO. My lord, she may be a punk; for many of them are neither
  MRS. FORD. Here, set it down.
     And nothing more, may fitly like your Grace,
BUCKINGHAM, SALISBURY, and WARWICK, to the Parliament
  LAFEU. No, no, no, son was misled with a snipt-taffeta fellow

  PANDARUS. But there was such laughing! Queen Hecuba laugh'd that
    Thou cam'st-
  CANIDIUS. To Caesar will I render
  Through heavy sleep on sightless eyes doth stay!
    The steeled gaoler is the friend of men. [Knocking within]
  GRATIANO. O, be thou damn'd, inexecrable dog!
    The unseen good old man.
    Do as I bid you do.
    When it is least expected.

    But sever'd in a pale clear-shining sky.
Another part of the field of battle
    Even at the crying of your nation's crow,
     As we shall find their merits and our safety
  Ham. O, throw away the worser part of it,
    When Laban and himself were compromis'd
  JULIA. You do not!
    With slaughter coupled to the name of kings.

    So dreadful will not be as was his sight.  
  AENEAS. How have we spent this morning!  
    to La Pucelle
    But, in the gross and scope of my opinion,
  YORK. Be York the next that must be bankrupt so!
                                           Exeunt NORFOLK and SUFFOLK
                     Re-enter LUCETTA
    Beauty doth varnish age, as if new-born,
    Whiles yet my soldiers are in my command;
    Per Styga, per manes vehor.                           Exeunt

    Wilt thou be made a man out of my vice?
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Basting.
    Not i' the worst rank of manhood, say it,
    Since thou hast far to go, bear not along
    If once they join in trial. Tell your nephew
    With which the time will load him. Th' Archbishop
Britain. The garden of CYMBELINE'S palace
    My picked man of countries: 'My dear sir,'
  SEBASTIAN. I remember

  And Lapland sorcerers inhabit here.
    And that distill'd by magic sleights
  ARVIRAGUS. O' th' floor;
    I toward Arragon.
     For your fit welcome. Give ear, sir, to my sister;
    Your brother is to die.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Where I will write. All may be well enough.
  IACHIMO. Then, if you can,                [Shows the bracelet]
  Hor. Here, sweet lord, at your service.
    Must be boisterously maintain'd as gain'd,
  MARCUS. O, why should nature build so foul a den,
     On capital treason; and, in thine attaint,
    Was I a child to fear I know not what.
    And I the King shall love thee.
           the stool and runs away; and they follow and cry
       and come behind CLEOPATRA. Some of the guard
    Playing the mouse in absence of the cat,
    My gown.                                        Exit Lucius.

    Plague him with flies. Though that his joy be joy,
    out his head but I am thrust upon it. Well, I cannot last ever;
    As doubtful whether what I see be true,  
  PAGE. Sir, he is within; and I would I could do a good office

  FORD. Never.

    Of such an ungrown warrior.

    Be sometime honour'd for his burning throne!
    Fall all together.
            How then might your prayers move!
    same kind! This would make mercy swear and play the tyrant.  
                    SONG.
  SUFFOLK. If I depart from thee I cannot live;
     crowns.
  ANTONY. I am dying, Egypt, dying.
    of your matter before the King.
    Come, come, be every one officious
  CAMPEIUS. Madam, you'll find it so. You wrong your virtues
  But thou art twice forsworn to me love swearing,
    I speak not this as doubting any here;
    And gentlemen in England now-a-bed
  RODERIGO. Nobody come? Then shall I bleed to death.
  DUKE. 'Tis not possible.
    A barren-spirited fellow, one that feeds
    Thy personal venture in the rebels' fight,
    As those should do that had deserv'd his hate,
  KING RICHARD. Return again, and take an oath with thee.
  Fal. Go to, I know you well enough.
    Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass,
BALTHAZAR. In debating which was best, we shall part with neither.
    For shame, thou hilding of a devilish spirit,


  KING PHILIP. Thou shalt not need. England, I will fall from thee.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Nay, my good lord, let me o'errule you now.
  CLEOPATRA. None but friends: say boldly.

    sir, this eight years; an I cannot once or twice in a quarter
    beds.
  OLIVIA. Hold, Toby; on thy life, I charge thee hold.
  Lear. 'My lady's father'? My lord's knave! You whoreson dog! you
SCENE:
    your chimney, and your chamber-lye breeds fleas like a loach.
  MENENIUS. Come, come, you have been too rough, something too rough;
  YORK. And yet, forsooth, she is a virgin pure.
  THIRD WITCH. Harpier cries, "'Tis time, 'tis time."
    I'll take it as a peril to my soul
    will he nill he, he goes- mark you that. But if the water come to
    Companions to our person, and will fit you
  BEROWNE. Is not nine.
    Nor do I now make moan to be abridg'd
    Is thy name Tyrrel?
                         a torch burning
  TAMORA. Farewell, Andronicus, Revenge now goes  

  Glend. No, here it is.
    laid, and everything in order?
    Opening on Neptune with fair blessed beams,
    And you that do abet him in this kind
  KING EDWARD. Go, trumpet, to the walls, and sound a parle.
    Which we devise him.
    Being wanted, he may be more wond'red at
  Thy youth's proud livery so gazed on now,
    what pride is.
    you.
    In such a justling time? Who leads his power?
    compel him to her recompense; and here, by this, is your brother
    What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
    I'll discover that which shall undo the Florentine.
  Establish him in his true sense again,

    may you, sir; and so adieu, sir. My master hath appointed me to
    So clear, so shining, and so evident,
  ESCALUS. Well, I do so.
    Forerun fair Love, strewing her way with flowers.
  Bene. Two of them have the very bent of honour;

  HOST. What wouldst thou have, boor? What, thick-skin?
  Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth,
    which I will be ever to pay and yet pay still.
    I came before you here a man prepar'd

    Thou blowest for Hector.                         [Trumpet sounds]
  Ham. Pale or red?
    God is our fortress, in whose conquering name

  For on his visage was in little drawn
    Howe'er it pleases you to take it so,
    You fools! I and my fellows
    But I and Harry Monmouth! Tell me, tell me,
    the conqueror! You will be scrap'd out of the painted cloth for
    And sometime rail thou like Demetrius;
    forehead, crying 'Peer-out, peer-out!' that any madness I
  QUICKLY. Ay me, he'll find the young man there, and be
    Have been so brief with you to shorten you,
    but little more to say, sir, of his honesty. He has everything
  MRS. PAGE. Creep into the kiln-hole.
  OCTAVIA. My noble brother!
  SHALLOW. Under King Harry.
    Were growing time once ripened to my will.
    Potent at court; he, none but he, shall have her,
    To their subsequent volumes, there is seen

  BOYET. O, I am stabb'd with laughter! Where's her Grace?
    And the desire of the nobles.
    My present vengeance taken. Shrew my heart!

    The obsequies that I for thee will keep
  Reserved the stalk and gave him all my flower.
    Her whip, of cricket's bone; the lash, of film;
    Nay, godded me indeed. Their latest refuge
  DUCHESS. Stay, I will go with you.

    Upon my lady's missing, came to me
    Go in to Troy, and say there 'Hector's dead.'
  MESSENGER. At my depart, these were his very words:
    My proud heart sues, and prompts my tongue to speak.
    Most venerable worth, did I devotion.
    melancholy, and would fain have it beaten away. Wilt thou use thy  
    But, fearing lest my jealous aim might err
    For no less spoil than glory-

    Look here's more news.
   But that the scambling and unquiet time
    They're loving, well compos'd with gifts of nature,
    To solemnize this day the glorious sun
ACT V. SCENE I.
  SIMPLE. I will, Sir.                                      Exit
  DUKE. He shall know you better, sir, if I may live to report you.
    how the wheel becomes it! It is the false steward, that stole his
                 Enter FLAVIUS, in a cloak, muffled
  CALIBAN. Thou mak'st me merry; I am full of pleasure.
    This cloth thou dipp'dst in blood of my sweet boy,
    Fall deep in love with thee, and her great charms
  CASSIO. I'll do't, but it dislikes me.                        Exit.
    Why, I can smile, and murder whiles I smile,
    Cressida was a beggar. My lady is within, sir. I will construe to
     Have more than merited.- All friends shall taste
    Hath given them heart and courage to proceed.
  TIMON. Look you, I love you well; I'll give you gold,
    In every place save here in Italy.
    Than to rejoice the former queen is well?
    Th' earldom of Hereford and the movables
    Did I forget that by the house of York
    an they be not, let them hang themselves in their own straps.
    He gave to Alexander; to Ptolemy he assign'd
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DROMIO OF EPHESUS twin brothers, and attendants on

    Of honorable-dangerous consequence;

    I will not hear thee speak. This man, Aufidius,
  PEMBROKE. All murders past do stand excus'd in this;
    And I will call hall to so strict account
    Shall we well meet them; that way are they coming.
  FIRST SOLDIER. Will not you go?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    flatter thee. O you gods, what a number of men eats Timon, and he
    The army marvell'd at it; and, in the last,
    it is all the wealth that he hath left to be known a reasonable
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    I did not entertain thee as thou art.

  VOLSCE. Coriolanus banish'd!
    What, Longaville, and reading! Listen, car.
                Trumpets sound. Enter REIGNIER below
  WILLIAM. Accusativo, hinc.
    Clapping their hands, and crying with loud voice
  FIRST CITIZEN. Methinks there is much reason in his sayings.
    Tell him from me- as he will win my love-
    Which of you trembles not that looks on me?
    Leaving no tract behind.
            Thou shouldst have been, and shielded him

    Too little payment for so great a debt.
    Will quench the wonder of her infamy.
    Stand for your own, unwind your bloody flag,
  SECOND LORD. God save you, noble Captain.
  TIMON. E'en so, sir, as I say. [To To POET] And for thy fiction,
    Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows.  
    thy pocket but tavern reckonings, memorandums of bawdy houses,
  Prince. I shall hereafter, my thrice-gracious lord,
    How nice the quarrel was, and urg'd withal
    their white stockings, and every officer his wedding-garment on?
                            Enter Othello.  
    In following him, I follow but myself;
    the favour of Margaret, the waiting gentlewoman to Hero.
    make thee wrong this virtuous gentlewoman to close with us? Is
    The best, with whom we may articulate
    Thy late exploits done in the heart of France
  Urs. Why did you so? Doth not the gentleman
    As 'longeth to a lover's blessed case!

  OTHELLO. [Advancing.] How shall I murther him, Iago?
  Dog. Are you good men and true?
  Fill, Lucius, till the wine o'erswell the cup;
Lucilius, and others.
  VIOLA. Why do you speak to me? I never hurt you.
    courtship. You say true; 'tis so, indeed. If such tricks as these
  FABIAN. And O shall end, I hope.
    And lean-look'd prophets whisper fearful change;
  Glou. I serve you, madam.
    Against my lord the Duke of Somerset.
    Offending charity; if but a dozen French
  Con. Marry, sir, we say we are none.
    Ay, and their colours, often borne in France,
    O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
  1. Car. Nay, by God, soft! I know a trick worth two of that,
      be won at last;
  Under the blow of thralled discontent,
    And do invite you to my sister's view,
  Kent. Oppressed nature sleeps.
    And caterpillars eat my leaves away;
    Like water from ye, never found again
    The graceless action of a heavy hand,
  Music to hear, why hear'st thou music sadly?
    Such fierce alarums both of hope and fear,
    And then to Rome. Come, Dolabella, see
  Serv. Marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his own
    From that contented hap which I enjoy'd,

    And his page a t' other side, that handful of wit!
  LUCIUS. Sir, the event
    To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
    Can do all this that he hath promised?
London. A hall in Blackfriars

    Not cast aside so soon.
    To be thy lord and master. Seek the King;
    As any cordial comfort. Still, methinks,
    And I must pause till it come back to me.
    Tincture or lustre in her lip, her eye,
                                Exeunt SOLANIO, SALERIO, and MAN
  TROILUS. Who should withhold me?
    in love with thee; in which doing, I have done the part of a
  2. Watch. Here's Romeo's man. We found him in the churchyard.
  FIRST SOLDIER. You are undone, Captain, all but your scarf; that
  ORLANDO. Hang there, my verse, in witness of my love;
  YORK. Is all our travail turn'd to this effect?
  IMOGEN. How now, Pisanio!
    may prove prosperous; and let me desire to know how you find
  ULYSSES. Troy, yet upon his basis, had been down,  
    And started when he look'd upon the Tower,
  THERSITES. How the devil luxury, with his fat rump and potato
  BAPTISTA. Not in my house, Lucentio, for you know
    You promis'd knighthood to our forward son:
  Lear. I'll talk a word with this same learned Theban.
SCENE III.
    Is this our fabric, if that they-
    My dear Lord Gloucester, and my good Lord Exeter,
    And with a larger tether may he walk
    And put the same into young Arthur's hand,
  LAFEU. Uncertain life and sure death.  
    O, full of danger is the Duke of Gloucester!
    the King's English.
  CANTERBURY. Therefore doth heaven divide
  LOVELL. My lord, I love you;
  ORLANDO. I am more proud to be Sir Rowland's son,
  HORTENSIO. Alla nostra casa ben venuto,
     With hardocks, hemlock, nettles, cuckoo flow'rs,
    Dame Eleanor gives gold to bring the witch:
    trail, never trust me when I open again.
    The ruddiness upon her lip is wet;
    To Ireland, Poictiers, Anjou, Touraine, Maine,
  Prince. Bardolph!
  O that you were your self, but love you are
    Poor Bassianus here lies murdered.
  DUNCAN. My worthy Cawdor!

    Became him like the leaving it; he died
    poor widow of Eastcheap, and he is arrested at my suit.
  Rom. And is it not, then, well serv'd in to a sweet goose?

    And bear't before him; thereby shall we shadow
    Which your own coffers yield! with diseas'd ventures
  Like usury applying wet to wet,
    if the devil bid you. Because we come to do you service and you
    Here will I sit before the walls of Rouen,
    Set armed discord 'twixt these perjur'd kings!
    How dearly they do't! 'Tis her breathing that
    Nor are you therein, by my life, deceiv'd;
    Troop home to churchyards. Damned spirits all

    And kept low shrubs from winter's pow'rful wind.
    Who, cherish'd in your breasts, will sting your hearts.
    Send word to you he would be there tomorrow.
    call thee so, for I will show thee no reason for't.'
    For I myself must hunt this deer to death.
    Are my chests fill'd up with extorted gold?
    By humble message and by promis'd means.
    drunk himself out of his five sentences.
  PANDARUS. Pray you, speak no more to me: I will leave all
    With the green sickness.
  PROVOST. Most manifest, and not denied by himself.
    Achilles; Achilles is my lord; I am Patroclus' knower; and

    hand. How does your drum?
    France, triumph in thy glorious prophetess.
    But your discretions better can persuade
    dominion, could not be so cruel to me as you, O the dearest of
Alarum. Enter the KING, EXETER, BEDFORD, GLOUCESTER,
  Rom. Tut! I have lost myself; I am not here:
    Dear almost as his life; which gratitude
                          Re-enter PROVOST
  COUNTESS. Victorious Talbot! pardon my abuse.
  PROTEUS. Bear witness, heaven, I have my wish for ever.
                            [Alarum afar off, as at a sea-fight]
    But what of this?
    O the fierce wretchedness that glory brings us!
    To cool a gipsy's lust.
    Tell him I'll send Duke Edmund to the Tower-
  BERTRAM. Here, take my ring;
  IMOGEN. You make amends.
    I pray you stand good father to me now;
    That any did. Had we pursu'd that life,
    Since I am charg'd in honour, and by him
    well! Gentlemen both, I thank you. I must a dozen mile to-night.
  Rom. What, shall this speech be spoke for our excuse?
    Among th' Italian gentry, and to fight
    How dost thou, good lord?' This might be my Lord Such-a-one, that
    My father's loss, the weakness which I feel,
             Enter ESCALUS, PROVOST, and OFFICERS with
    Whose name was once our terror, now our comfort,
    She better would have fitted me or Clarence;
  Fal. The King himself is to be feared as the lion. Dost thou think
    As, to seek through the regions of the earth

  NORTHUMBERLAND. It is my Lord of Berkeley, as I guess.
    That now give evidence against my soul
    If they'll do neither, we will come to them
  HERMIONE. Not your gaoler then,
  CADE. My father was a Mortimer-
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  BAPTISTA MINOLA, a gentleman of Padua
    [To LAVINIA]  Thou map of woe, that thus dost talk in signs!
  QUEEN MARGARET. Hover about her; say that right for right
    I will resolve for Scotland. There am I,
    And champion me to the utterance! Who's there?
  Bal. As I did sleep under this yew tree here,
              Enter Polonius, Voltemand, and Cornelius.
  FORD. What, a hodge-pudding? a bag of flax?
    Whilst some with cunning gild their copper crowns,

    I would relieve her. Had you that craft to reave her
  NORFOLK. A gracious king that pardons all offences
    her.
    Of mortal griefs than do thy worshippers?
  CITIZEN. That daughter there of Spain, the Lady Blanch,
    And many giddy people flock to him.
  FIRST SERVING-MAN. Content: I'll to the surgeon's.
    What cause withholds you then to mourn for him?
  FLORIZEL. Most royal sir, from thence; from him whose daughter
    To her unhappy brother Claudio?
  OTHELLO. Prithee, no more. Let him come when he will;
    To show itself but pride; for supple knees
                      Enter PAROLLES
  CLOWN. Now, now; I have not wink'd since I saw these sights; the
    And heir apparent to the English crown.
    By giving love, your sorrow and my grief
    Cried 'O!' and mounted; found no opposition  
    A gory emulation 'twixt us twain:
    A second time do such a courtesy.
    Of place 'tween high and low. Our foe was princely;
    Would let her out in saucers. Sweet misprision!
    It irks his heart he cannot be reveng'd.
  SCARUS. She once being loof'd,
    Poor I was slain when Bassianus died.

    I have seen him do. How he solicits heaven,
    Who having no external thing to lose
    Will you go along with us?
    that he is become very hot and valiant. If I had a thousand sons,  
    Tou have good leave to leave us. When we need

    The better part of ours are full of rest.
  Bene. To bind me, or undo me--one of them.
  Like a deceived husband, so love's face,
    Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily;
 Exit
    Upon thy feature; for my rage was blind,
  PARIS. What exploit's in hand? Where sups he to-night?
  LAUNCELOT. It should seem, then, that Dobbin's tail grows backward;
    That may give furth'rance to our expedition;
    As I am subtle, false, and treacherous,  
Dramatis Personae
    If ever I did dream of such a matter,
    This is as't should be. Let me see the County.
    Where art thou?                                 Unlocks the door.
    He cannot draw his power this fourteen days.
  ANTONIO. I'll teach you how to flow.
    Doth Silvia know that I am banished?
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  SALISBURY. Come, leave your drinking and fall to blows.
    And towards himself, his goodness forespent on us,

    Crack my clear voice with sobs and break my heart,
  PANDULPH. All form is formless, order orderless,
    'Tis pity she's not honest- honourable.'

    The fourth turn'd on the toe, and down he fell.
  FREDERICK. Come on; since the youth will not be entreated, his own
    to see how the sea flap-dragon'd it; but first, how the poor
    Are then in council, and the state of man,
                    Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
    God save you, Captain.
    Your lord; myself and other noble friends
    Then bring me to their sights; I'll bear thy blame,
    When I am cold in love to you or yours.
    Turns to the sourest and most deadly hate.
  KING. Who lent it you?
  LUCIUS. No, sir, their hats are pluck'd about their ears,
    To let me see them, and to make me know
Windsor Castle
  SIMPCOX. Alas, master, what shall I do? I am not able to stand.
    I'll tell thee on the instant thou art then
                    Enter SIR ANDREW AGUECHEEK  

    Are not within the leaf of pity writ,

  MRS. PAGE. For shame, never stand 'you had rather' and 'you
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    How far you satisfied me.
  Ros. Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
  FIRST LADY. Why, my sweet lord?
    All his revenue.
    You bate too much of your own merits.  
  NORFOLK. What, are you chaf'd?  
  SOMERSET. I humbly thank your royal Majesty.
  BANQUO. It will be rain tonight.
  Or (being wrecked) I am a worthless boat,
     health, a boy's love, or a whore's oath.  

    Pursue thy life and live aye with thy name!
  ROSALINE. That was the way to make his godhead wax;
    He'll call you to so hot an answer of it
    lady is fair--'tis a truth, I can bear them witness; and virtuous  
    And, hearing your high Majesty is touch'd
Elsinore. A room of state in the Castle.
  2. Serv. I'll never care what wickedness I do,
  ARMADO. No, page; it is an epilogue or discourse to make plain
                        France. Before Orleans
    From plume-pluck'd Richard, who with willing soul
    Can justly praise but what he does affect.
    A man in much esteem with th' King, and truly
    The Dukes of Orleans, Calaber, Bretagne, and Alencon,
    And prove it too against mine honour, aught,

  PROTEUS. I left them all in health.
    Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    food that to him now is as luscious as locusts, shall be to him  
    court. They cherish it to make it stay there; and yet it will no
    Nor to their penn'd speech render we no grace;
    And loving farewell of our several friends.
    Address yourself to entertain them sprightly,
    And with thy weapon nothing dar'st perform.

    The cruel issue of these bloody men,  
  Ver. And further, I have learn'd
  Claud. [reads from a scroll]
    Are you content to be our general-

    And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd

  VALENTINE. Of my mistress, then.
  TRINCULO. Why, what did I? I did nothing. I'll go farther
  Wife. A crutch, a crutch! Why call you for a sword?
    To enter human hearing, from Argier
  Pedro. Indeed that tells a heavy tale for him. Conclude, conclude,
  ANGELO. Good night.                               Exit ESCALUS  
    Hath an aspect of intercession which
    The root of his opinion, which is rotten

Enter CADE
    Look Lucius, here's the book I sought for so;
  PRINCE OF MOROCCO. Good fortune then,
  Osr. I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him
    Witness, you ever-burning lights above,
  Corn. Where hast thou sent the King?
    What stars do spangle heaven with such beauty
    And let thy tongue be equal with thy heart.
                NORFOLK, MONTAGUE, and soldiers
  Prince. Hark how hard he fetches breath. Search his pockets.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE

    Thy murd'rous falchion smoking in his blood;
making a noise with hounds and horns; and MARCUS
    her ever most kind and natural; with him the portion and sinew of  
  Ham. The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
  For every vulgar paper to rehearse?
    And you, Lord Archbishop, and you, Lord Mowbray,
          Enter CORIOLANUS, MENENIUS and COMINIUS, with others
  To stand in thy affairs, fall by thy side.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
                          SCENE IV.
    And, on my life, his malice 'gainst the lady

    The arm of mine own body, and the heart
    To loss and what may follow! Weep I cannot,  
  BASTARD. Your sword is bright, sir; put it up again.
    the top of mine) an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,
    wife.
  Friar. Romeo!
  And when in his fair parts she did abide,
  DESDEMONA. Then heaven have mercy on me!  
    England shall double gild his treble guilt;
    commands.
    Teeth hadst thou in thy head when thou wast born,
    endeavour of drinking good and good store of fertile sherris,
  Nurse. O woe? O woful, woful, woful day!
    Your lady is forthcoming yet at London.

    Young Adam Cupid, he that shot so trim
    As yet I do not; but, as I can learn,
    I have access my own love to prefer;
    With all these living in philosophy.
  BERTRAM. Sir, it is
    And one day in a week to touch no food,
    To him the other two shall minister;
    before; but come your ways.
    Why, what means this? Why do you look on me?
    Stood on her cheeks, as doth the honey dew
  Con. A commodity in question, I warrant you. Come, we'll obey you.
    And I have better news in store for you
  PISTOL. The King's a bawcock and a heart of gold,
    And, for thou wast a spirit too delicate
  Hero. I do.
    The husbandry and manage of my house

    The deep-revolving witty Buckingham
    For so he will'd it.
    though it be great pity, yet it is necessary. An old
  CLOWN. Wit, an't be thy will, put me into good fooling! Those wits
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Then thus: I have from Le Port Blanc, a bay
  RIVERS. And so in me; and so, I think, in an.
    shall do that that is reason.
  Con. Is it possible that any villany should be so dear?
    To rouse his wrongs and chase them to the bay.
Enter CLOWN and FABIAN
    The wealthy, curled darlings of our nation,
    Make use of thy salt hours. Season the slaves

  FABIAN. O, peace! Contemplation makes a rare turkey-cock of him;
    For nothing can seem foul to those that win.
    The wager thou hast won; and I will ad
ACT_5|SC_2
    Was deep-sworn faith, peace, amity, true love,
    Bring me a father that so lov'd his child,
  ROSALIND. I could find in my heart to disgrace my man's apparel,
    Who, as we hear, are busily in arms.
    How prettily the young swain seems to wash
    New-dated letters from Northumberland;
  VALENTINE. My ears are stopp'd and cannot hear good news,
    Than those that walk and wot not what they are.
    Would for Carnarvonshire, although there long'd
    with divines, and have all charitable preparation. If my brother
    Cupid is no longer an archer; his glory shall be ours, for we are
    And Cassio high in oath, which till tonight
    Her elder sister is so curst and shrewd
    That patient merit of th' unworthy takes,
    Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
  THYREUS. So, haply, are they friends to Antony.
                            'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
    Or swear before you choose, if you choose wrong,
    Ill in myself to see, and in thee seeing ill.
    Or break it all to pieces; or there we'll sit,
    Even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet,
    Of Canterbury, accompanied with other
    Poins!
    I have found great love amongst them. O my sweet,
    The lion dying thrusteth forth his paw
  COMINIUS. You have brought
  BRUTUS. Sleep again, Lucius. Sirrah Claudio!
    Did scandal many a holy tear, took pity
    And Harry Monmouth's brawn, the hulk Sir John,
    pluck him off me, how he swore, how she pray'd that never pray'd
ACT_3|SC_6
    Two days ago. This jealousy
    Was never subject long'd to be a King
    Where, being but a private man again,
    Keeping them prisoner underneath her wings.
    Who's that that rings the bell?- Diablo, ho!
  Ham. If she should break it now!
    I will go on. I lay with Cassio lately
    Entreat her fair; and, by my soul, fair Greek,
    And smooth the frowns of war with peaceful looks.  
    We would as willingly give cure as know.
    lady.
  LIGARIUS. Vouchsafe good morrow from a feeble tongue.
    Deck'd with five flower-de-luces on each side,


    Shake, quoth the dovehouse! 'Twas no need, I trow,
    They that have done this deed are honorable.
    The worthiness of praise distains his worth,
    That is removed by a staff of France;
  DUKE. I thank you. Fare you well.                         Exit
    I thank my God for my humility.
                       Enter GLOUCESTER


    Nor rest be interposer 'twixt us twain.               Exeunt
    So humbly take my leave.  
  LARTIUS. O General,  
     Soon may I hear and see him!
    I have heard him read many lectures against it; and I thank God I
  PLANTAGENET. Ay, noble uncle, thus ignobly us'd,
    Away, go, away!                                       Exeunt
    Instructed by the antiquary times-
    report of it. Well, Diana, take heed of this French earl; the
    Interprets for my poor ignorance.

    And rather prov'd the sliding of your brother
  KING RICHARD.                                          [Reads]
    There was a lady once-'tis an old story-
  KING HENRY. No: 'tis hereafter to know, but now to promise; do but
  Fran. What, sir?


  ANTONY. You will compel me then to read the will?
    As in a theatre, whence they gape and point
  LAUNCE. Well, the best is, she hath no teeth to bite.

  Beat. Is it possible Disdain should die while she hath such meet

  HERMIA. Belike for want of rain, which I could well  
    and call it purchase. Bardolph stole a lute-case, bore it twelve
  ACHILLES. Come, thou shalt bear a letter to him straight.  

    to write and read comes by nature.
    I come, in kindness and unfeigned love,
    thee the hearing.
  KING HENRY. Be patient, gentle queen, and I will stay.  

  BRUTUS. Hence! I will follow.
  Lear. My curses on her!
  O benefit of ill, now I find true
    Unstaid and skittish in all motions else
    Has business at his house; for all shall stay.
    Divided from herself and her fair-judgment,
  RICHARD, DUKE OF YORK,
  TIMON. Be it not in thy care.

    Give that which gave thee life unto the worms.
    His Grace is ent'ring. Nay, you must not freeze:
    Brother of England, how may we content

    When, for fame's sake, for praise, an outward part,
    O, if you raise this house against this house,
    But day doth daily draw my sorrows longer,
                     Re-enter WIDOW with HELENA
  KATHARINE. Yes, good Griffith;
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love!
  CORIOLANUS. Bid them wash their faces
  DESDEMONA. No, faith, my lord.
  Ver. So do we.
    Shall see this and bless heaven.
  Mar. It is offended.
  ANTONY. Eros, thou yet behold'st me?
    He did behove his anger ere 'twas spent,
    the will is infinite, and the execution confin'd; that the desire
  DENNY. He attends your Highness' pleasure.
    If Talbot do but thunder, rain will follow.
    Stand back, you lords, and give us leave awhile.
    Poor man! I know he would not be a wolf

      with papers. The CARDINAL in his passage fixeth his
  KING EDWARD. Hold, Richard, hold; for we have done to much.
  KING JOHN. It is the curse of kings to be attended
    In states unborn and accents yet unknown!  
  Glou. I am tied to th' stake, and I must stand the course.
    Therefore thy threat'ning colours now wind up
    patience, good people.'
    'Tis but his policy to counterfeit,
  DIANA. Ay, my lord.
  GUIDERIUS. I could not stir him.
    'Twixt these extremes at all.

    methought I had, but man is but a patch'd fool, if he will offer
    Guienne, Champagne, Rheims, Orleans,
    O woful day! O woful day!
  BARDOLPH. My captain, sir, commends him to you; my captain, Sir
    Did I the tired Caesar. And this man
    More hath he spent in peace than they in wars.
    starve with nothing. It is no mean happiness, therefore, to be
    To cry, "Hold, hold!"
    Become the forest better than the town?
  ESCALUS. We shall entreat you to abide here till he come and
    I would be so triumphant as I am?
  When I consider every thing that grows
    Nay, get thee gone. [Exit Roderigo.] Two things are to be done:
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Cousins, indeed; and by their uncle
    We met here both to thank and to remember
    Enter, and cry 'The Dauphin!' presently,
    Shall soon enjoy.
                                      Exeunt ABHORSON and POMPEY
    Bend thoughts and wits to achieve her. Thus it stands:
    No more pertains to me, my lord, than you.
    Why, courage then! What cannot be avoided
    'Gainst us, our lives, our children, and our heirs.
  The place of death and sorry execution,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    And bring your music forth into the air.       Exit STEPHANO
France. Plains near Angiers
    Our gentry than our parents' noble names,
    And leap for joy, though they are lame with blows;
  FALSTAFF. Health and long life to you, Master Silence!  
    I am son to th' Queen.
  AGUECHEEK. 'Odours,' 'pregnant,' and 'vouchsafed'- I'll get 'em all
  MACDUFF. Despair thy charm,
    This man shall set me packing.
    Because we brave her. Come.
    What dost thou wrap and fumble in thy arms?
  MOPSA. Is it true, think you?
    Lines of fair comfort and encouragement.
    Where the bee sucks, there suck I;
    Ah, boy, Cornelia never with more care
    That else must perish here.
    And our affairs from England come too late.  
  BIONDELLO. Why, Petruchio is coming- in a new hat and an old
    him, makes no stranger of me; we are familiar at first.
    God give you joy, sir, of your gallant bride!
  DESDEMONA. I will so. What's the matter?
  From off a hill whose concave womb reworded
    As I had title in thy noble husband!
  BOLINGBROKE. O, God defend my soul from such deep sin!
    For though her father be the King of Naples,
    Thou naughty gaoler, that thou art so fond
  CHARMIAN. Out, fool! I forgive thee for a witch.
    On horror's head horrors accumulate;
  Ham. For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god  
    Are like to rot untasted. Go and tell him
       Then enter SATURNINUS, TAMORA, BASSIANUS LAVINIA,
     To bear it tamely; touch me with noble anger,
  TAMORA. Where is my lord the King?
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. What, thou?
  
    Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
    Come, I will have thee; but, by this light, I take thee for pity.
  COUNTESS. Go not about; my love hath in't a bond
    Play, music; and you brides and bridegrooms all,
    their heads.
  YORK. I will, my lord, so please his Majesty.
    And most assured that he is a friend,
    Yet fil'd with my abilities; mine own ends
    Though ne'er so cunningly you smother it.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    A cup of wine, sir?
    I leave you to your wisdom.
    Unless she gave it to yourself in bed-
    Double six thousand, and then treble that,
  A NOBLEMAN                         TWO KEEPERS
  LODOVICO. Is this the noble Moor whom our full Senate
  SECOND MURTHERER. Then 'tis he; the rest
  MACBETH. Had I three ears, I'd hear thee.
  Ham. Or like a whale.
  BRABANTIO.               Strike on the tinder, ho!
    truth, sir, I had as lief be hang'd, sir, as go. And yet, for
    Resolv'd for flight. Now were I happy if
          That it had it head bit off by it young.
    three all ready.
  GARDINER. What other
    Those that would mischief me than those that do!
    She shall be dignified with this high honour-
    Shrewsbury, and, as I hear, is now going with some charge to the  
  Ben. Tybalt, the kinsman to old Capulet,

    As 'twere in scorn of eyes, reflecting gems,
    We shall hear music, wit, and oracle.
      The lady widow of Vitruvio;
    king, I could find in my heart to bestow it all of your worship.
    I will be very kind, and liberal
  But yield them up where I myself must render-
     Until their greater pleasures first be known
  Edg. I am sure on't, not a word.
    true, but so.
    When Cassio left my wife. What didst not like?
    every reason excites to this, that my lady loves me. She did
    Sent from a sort of tinkers to the King.
  TAMORA. Why hast thou slain thine only daughter thus?
    And with such sober and unnoted passion
  KING. Pray you, arise,
    By their proscriptions, Cicero being one.
  CAESAR. Caesar shall forth: the things that threaten'd me
    Than for his lineal royalties, and to beg
    May know if you remain upon this island;

  So should that beauty which you hold in lease
    For my wounds' sake to give their suffrage. Please you
    Or walk in thievish ways, or bid me lurk
    Now to deliver her possession up
    From these our Henry lineally descends.
         For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
    Sweet Kate, embrace her for her beauty's sake.
  Beat. Princes and Counties! Surely a princely testimony, a goodly
    blindness, who cannot see many a fair French city for one fair

  BASTARD. Away, then, with good courage!
  Claud. And never could maintain his part but in the force of his
    The penalty and forfeit of my bond.
  BASSIANUS. Rape, call you it, my lord, to seize my own,
    JEWELLER
    Outrun the pauser reason. Here lay Duncan,
    Her face defac'd with scars of infamy,
    cicatrices to show the people when he shall stand for his place.
    Find liable to our crown and dignity,
  SUFFOLK. A dreadful oath, sworn with a solemn tongue!
  MRS. PAGE. I Will lay a plot to try that, and we will yet have
  DUCHESS. Art thou my son?
    way, so; if he do not, if I come in his willingly, let him make a
    Words, life, and all, old Lancaster hath spent.
  Ant. To tell you true, I counterfeit him.
    I have fought with thee; so often hast thou beat me;
    That man i' th' world who shall report he has
    Where my poor young was lim'd, was caught, and kill'd.
London. The Palace.
    But I must go and meet with danger there,
  Fal. Have you any levers to lift me up again, being down? 'Sblood,
    With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing!

    must go visit the good lady that lies in.
     That monsters it, or your fore-vouch'd affection
    MELUN, a French lord
    I' th' afternoon to sleep; there thou mayst brain him,
    If for my love, as there is no such cause,

  STEPHANO. Come on your ways; open your mouth; here is
  DULL. I Said the deer was not a haud credo; 'twas a pricket.
    of a death's-head or a memento mori. I never see thy face but I
    And so success of mischief shall be born,
  BUCKINGHAM. What, talking with a priest, Lord
    Be counterpois'd with such a petty sum!
    depart- that, as I slew my best lover for the good of Rome, I
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Great thanks, great Pompey.

       Enter, to the gates of the monument, PROCULEIUS, GALLUS,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. From which lord to which lady?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    More free from motion-no, not Death himself
  Mer. Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.
  A sin prevailing much in youthful men
    But where he meant to ruin, pitiful.
    Saw I men scour so on their way. I ey'd them
    Upon Good Friday, and ne'er broke his fast.
    With all true faith. So says my master Antony.
    Or if thou thinkest I am too quickly won,
  ALL. Amen!

    Brutus and Caesar: what should be in that "Caesar"?
    That have of late so huddled on his back-
               Alarum and retreat within. Enter Edgar,
      carrying the garland with them. The music continues
    You know the wager?
  PANDARUS. Nay, that shall not serve your turn; that shall it not,
    Most wrongfully accus'd your substitute;
    O perjured woman! Thou dost stone my heart,
    unless a man were curs'd I cannot tell what to think on't. What
  FALSTAFF. Let them go. I'll through Gloucestershire, and there will
    And, pretty fool, it stinted, and said 'Ay.'
  Hor. Be rul'd. You shall not go.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  EARL OF WARWICK
  YORK. Lord Buckingham, methinks you watch'd her well.
  Thine own sweet argument, too excellent,
    Or whether he be scap'd away or no
                                                      Stabs him.
    He by the Senate is accited home,
    Though full of our displeasure, yet we free thee
  LEONTES. This is all:
    Your unknown sovereignty.
  FALSTAFF. 'Tis, 'tis his fortune.
    word, he hath, believe me; Robert Shallow, esquire, saith
  LYSANDER. She hath spied him already with those sweet eyes.
    That seem like prudent helps, are very poisonous

Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE, with his rapier drawn, and
    And unavoided is the danger now
    well appear'd by your tongue. What's the news in Rome? I have a
  WINCHESTER.  [Aside]  Each hath his place and function to
  TIMON. Well fare you, gentleman. Give me your hand;
    plackets where they should bear their faces? Is there not
    My person, or my liege's sovereignty.
  So should my papers (yellowed with their age)
    But 'tis my presence that doth trouble ye.
    The flowers fair ladies, and thy steps no more
  ARMADO. Boy, what sign is it when a man of great spirit grows
    of this drum, being not ignorant of the impossibility, and
  QUICKLY. What, John Rugby! I pray thee go to the casement
    That thus can make him bite the law by th' nose
    A foolish suitor to a wedded lady
  OLIVIA. Ay, my lord, this same.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  BOYET. Most true, 'tis right, you were so, Alisander.
  IAGO.                      What's the matter, lady?
    In our opinions she should be preferr'd;
  HERBERT. I doubt not but his friends will turn to us.
  YORK. 'Tis thought, my lord, that you took bribes of France

    That every tongue says beauty should look so.
    with your boots. Give me your hand, Master Bardolph.
    Had not been here to dress the ugly form

  PORTIA. To offend and judge are distinct offices
  Edg. Worthy prince, I know't.


    I'll hale the Dauphin headlong from his throne;
  PROTEUS. O, sir, she makes no doubt of that.
  RICHMOND. Cry mercy, lords and watchful gentlemen,
  SALERIO. He came too late, the ship was under sail;

  LEONTES. What you can make her do
    That therefore I have forg'd, or am not able
    Both as the same, or rather ours the elder-
  GRUMIO. Fie, fie on all tired jades, on all mad masters, and all
    Into the law of children. Be not fond
  BOTTOM. There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and Thisby that
    forgiven you, you're well to live. Gold! all gold!
    And given to Lartius and to Marcius battle;
    time would I, being but a moonish youth, grieve, be effeminate,

Enter BASSANIO, PORTIA, GRATIANO, NERISSA, and all their trains
    I am about to weep; but, thinking that

  Ham. Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
  MOTH. Yes, yes; he teaches boys the hornbook. What is a, b, spelt
    many, either to have it sterile with idleness or manured with  
    Your heart has mind to.                               Exeunt
  CASSIO. For mine own part- no offense to the general, nor any man
  PAGE. Why?
    More torches here! [Exeunt Maskers.] Come on then, let's to bed.  
  Ghost. Do not forget. This visitation
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    that always makes a good voyage of nothing. Farewell.
    To lay our service freely at your feet,
          When slanders do not live in tongues,
  SERVANT. I have told my lord of you; he is coming down to you.

    So slight, unworthy, and ridiculous,
    Think'st thou I am so shallow, so conceitless,
            To Hymen, god of every town!
DUKE. Well, Syracusian, say in brief the cause
    Ay, let the County take you in your bed!
    Sorrow concealed, like an oven stopp'd,
    Edward the Third, he bids you then resign
  PETRUCHIO. Nay, hear you, Kate- in sooth, you scape not so.
    One scene of it comes near the circumstance,
    Lest to thy harm thou move our patience.
    a very good report o' th' worm. But he that will believe all that
    their coaches; I warrant you, coach after coach, letter after
  IACHIMO. The crickets sing, and man's o'er-labour'd sense
    And lay your hands again upon my sword.
    My heart suspects more than mine eye can see.
    see a noise that he heard, and is to come again.

  Ham. With drink, sir?
    The statue is but newly fix'd, the colour's
    Where is my father and my mother, nurse?
  OTHELLO. O, thou art wise; 'tis certain.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I am transformed, master, am not I?
    For in the ingrated love he bears to Caesar-

    country?
  DUKE. There is a lady, in Verona here,
    Silence that dreadful bell; it frights the isle
    Are most select and generous, chief in that.
    More should I question thee, and more I must,
    tingling.
  SPEED. Marry, the son of my grandfather.  
    He was perfumed like a milliner,
    Or unto death, to do my country good.
  King. Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
                      CATESBY returns

    Which vainly I suppos'd the Holy Land.
    Know them from eyes of other mortals?
    How and which way I may bestow myself
    Well learned is that tongue that well can thee commend;
    Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
    hard for him, I have heard him say so himself.
    We have had pastimes here, and pleasant game;
  To witness duty, not to show my wit.
    Will have it so. On, lord; we'll follow you.

  CATESBY. Many good morrows to my noble lord!
    Best to preserve it. If I lose mine honour,
Enter Queen and Polonius.
  KING RICHARD. Ay, ay, thou wouldst be gone to join with
    2. Then two JUDGES.
  DIANA. Mine honour's such a ring:
                 Enter YORK, attended

                Alarums. Enter Macduff.
    they welcome.
         That she might admired be.
    Of sighs, of groans, of sorrow, and of teen!
  SECOND CITIZEN. Why that way?
    I'll bring you to a captain in this town,
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. In verity, you did. My bones bear witness,
    It fell upon a little western flower,
    I say unto you again, you are a shallow, cowardly hind, and you

    I can with ease produce.
    Murder'd sweet Tully; Brutus' bastard hand
    Forbade my tongue to speak of Mortimer,
    O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
    They are reformed, civil, full of good,
    Cap'ring to eye her. On a trice, so please you,

    To save me from the danger that might come
    I pray you, know me when we meet again;
    And girt thee with the sword. Cousin of York,
    and let not him speak neither.
    all our proceedings. O, I could divide myself and go to buffets
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. So are you.
    Reward to him that brings the traitor in?
    Or else of thee this I prognosticate,
  POSTHUMUS. Will you? I Shall but lend my diamond till your return.
    'For' quoth the King 'an angel shalt thou see;
ADRIANA. But say, I prithee, is he coming home?
    To this last costly treaty, th' interview
  CASSIO. Why, this is a more exquisite song than the other.
  KING RICHARD. Ah, Buckingham, now do I play the touch,
    For which I do commit into your hand
    Your ignorant election. Enforce his pride
    Should so profane the word, that taught me craft
  BOLINGBROKE. To men in joy; but grief makes one hour ten.  
    O, welcome home! And welcome, General.
    And raise his issue like a loving sire:
    Find fairer fortune, if you ever wed!
Enter the QUEEN, with her attendants
    You have me, rich; and I will never fail
    But time hath nothing blurr'd those lines of favour
  TAMORA. Titus, I am incorporate in Rome,
    Remember, Jove, thou wast a bull for thy Europa; love set on thy
  Lear. You are a spirit, I know. When did you die?
    I'll fetch a turn about the garden, pitying
                         Enter PAROLLES
  PURSUIVANT. I thank your honour.                          Exit
                         HERALD preceding
  Bene. Why, i' faith, methinks she's too low for a high praise,
  CHARMIAN. Nothing, madam.
    By their own beauties; or, if love be blind,
    And there is my Lord of Worcester, and a head
    All this I know, and to the marriage

    particle and utensil labell'd to my will: as- item, two lips
    Till Saturninus be Rome's Emperor.
  SERVING-MAN. So please your Grace, we'll take her from the sheriff.
                     63
    These two have 'ticed me hither to this place.
  HOSTESS QUICKLY, of the Boar's Head, Eastcheap
    Under pardon, sir, what are the contents? or rather as
    And all the devils are here.'

  BEROWNE. Our wooing doth not end like an old play:
    As great in admiration as herself,
  KING HENRY. So would you be again to Henry,
  THIRD CITIZEN. Let him go up into the public chair;
    Stay you, good gentlemen. Look you pale, mistress?
    Dismounted from your snow-white goodly steed,
    But thou art deeper read and better skill'd;
    The Volsces have much corn: take these rats thither

    No prodigal.
  Wor. The number of the King exceedeth ours.
                             Exeunt LUCIUS, QUINTUS, and MARTIUS

    And plant your joys in living Edward's throne.
    Which of a weak and niggardly projection
    Or else it would have gall'd his surly nature,
    To-morrow shall we visit you again.
  KING HENRY. We do not mean the coursing snatchers only,

  WARWICK. Who should that be? Belike unlook'd for friends.
    patience,
    Shall wait upon your father's funeral.
  NORFOLK. Arm, arm, my lord; the foe vaunts in the field.
    It adds a precious seeing to the eye:
    Purchase corrupted pardon of a man,  
                                                         Exeunt.
    Was born of woman.
  FIRST LORD. O, for the love of laughter, let him fetch his drum; he
  QUICKLY. Are they so? God bless them, and make them his
    My nobler friends, I crave their pardons.
CATESBY, CARDINAL BOURCHIER, and others

    The Volsces dare break with us.
    If any think brave death outweighs bad life
    Through which the fearful lovers are to whisper.
  LODOVICO. We do not know.
    That it will glimmer through a blind man's eye.
    As mine own face. If there be cords or knives,

    But that I'll give my voice on Richard's side
    The next thing then she waking looks upon,
    And then betwixt me and my married wife.
    The vent of hearing when loud Rumour speaks?
    Old feeble carrions and such suffering souls
    Rights by rights falter, strengths by strengths do fail.  
  SUFFOLK. Thy name affrights me, in whose sound is death.

    And from his bosom purge this black despair!
  HASTINGS. The good old man would fain that all were well,  
    A great man should decline? Nay, an you weep,
    Our madams mock at us and plainly say
    What, no attendance? no regard? no duty?
    Is Bridgenorth; and, Harry, you shall march
    Crown him, and say 'Long live our Emperor!'
  LAFEU. 'Fore God, I think so.
    Or else the world too saucy with the gods
    That in the sty of the most deadly boar
    Within this half hour hath receiv'd his sight;  
  SILENCE.  [Singing]
     to this?
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    her]  You have witchcraft in your lips, Kate: there is more
    And silence those whom this vile brawl distracted.
  ENOBARBUS. I give it you.
    So to seduce!- won to his shameful lust
     She gave strange eliads and most speaking looks
ACT IV. SCENE 2.
   His companies unletter'd, rude, and shallow,

    It is 'Adieu, adieu! Remember me.'  
  CASSIUS. Do not presume too much upon my love;
  AGAMEMNON. He hears nought privately that comes from Troy.
    Even with the sword that kill'd thee.                  Dies.
   And whipp'd th' offending Adam out of him,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. No, they are free that gave these tokens to us.
  Dog. Flat burglary as ever was committed.
    Upon thy wounds, that kills mine eye and heart!
  KING HENRY. Well, I will do it, though I take thee in the King's
    Turn back, dull earth, and find thy centre out.

    in your foul oyster.
  Fal. Where is it, Taken from us it is. A hundred upon poor four of
    I shoot thee at the swain.
  KING RICHARD. Mine ear is open and my heart prepar'd.
    And gives his potent regiment to a trull
    But wherefore do you droop? Why look you sad?
   How things are perfected.
    As did Aeneas old Anchises bear,
     And what they may incense him to, being apt
    You sun-burnt sicklemen, of August weary,
        Even the billows of the sea,
    tired mare, yet she will plod. There must be conclusions. Well, I
    Lest barbarism, making me the precedent,
    Was ever known so great and little los
  Ben. Come, knock and enter; and no sooner in
    And let it be confiscate all, so soon
     Thy sister's naught. O Regan, she hath tied
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I never saw you in my life till now.
  KING HENRY. Nay, it will please him well, Kate- it shall please
    To whom God will, there be the victory!
    hanged betimes in the morning may sleep the sounder all the next
    From top of honour to disgrace's feet?
    Wilt thou conceal this dark conspiracy?

    Doth dogged war bristle his angry crest
    Where I have liv'd at honest freedom, paid
    You bloody Neroes, ripping up the womb
  Edm. I do serve you in this business.
    In this uncivil and unjust extent  
     Give but that portion which yourself propos'd,
    wherein I confess me much guilty to deny so fair and excellent
    Bounding between the two moist elements
    lackeys, with the luggage of our camp. The French might have a
    done me right.
    By mingling them with us, the honour'd number,
DUKE. Long since thy husband serv'd me in my wars,
  THIRD CITIZEN. Let him be Caesar.
    would have you think so; but, on my allegiance--mark you this-on
    drink, and fear not your man.
    And corresponsive and fulfilling bolts,

    In any of their courts.           Exeunt QUEEN and her attendants
    Take on his Grace the sovereignty thereof;
    I am too perfect in; and, but for shame,
    As zephyrs blowing below the violet,
    Cry 'havoc!' kings; back to the stained field,
    As he had seen 't or been an instrument

  HOLOFERNES. This is a gift that I have, simple, simple; a foolish
  CELIA. Nay, he hath but a little beard.
    To say this boy were like me. Come, sir page,
    No doubt he will requite it. This is noted,
  FIRST LORD. Merely our own traitors. And as in the common course of
    Any hard lesson that may do thee good.
    The better cherish'd, still the nearer death.
    For that they will not intercept my tale.
  ANTONY. It is shap'd, sir, like itself, and it is as broad as it

  MOTH. A good l'envoy, ending in the goose; would you desire more?
    Tongue, and brain not; either both or nothing,
    That in this spleen ridiculous appears,
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Saw you the King to-day, my Lord of  
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  Queen. O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
  FIRST BEADLE. The constables have delivered her over to me; and she



  PLANTAGENET. Ay, sharp and piercing, to maintain his truth;
    The high imperial type of this earth's glory.
    Are now to have no successive degrees,
    Come we to full points here, and are etceteras nothings?
    To have his sight thither and back again.               Exit


    We'll quietly rouse the traitors in the same.
  DENNY. Sir, I have brought my lord the Archbishop,
  PISTOL. And I:
  ROSALIND. Alas the day! what shall I do with my doublet and hose?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    I will report, so please you; these her women
    The shadowed livery of the burnish'd sun,

    Above the morning lark. Or wilt thou hunt?
  GONZALO. But the rarity of it is, which is indeed almost
    In the adventure of this perilous day.
  MARCUS. And for our father's sake and mother's care,
    Gorg'd with the dearest morsel of the earth,
    But I shall lose the grounds I work upon.
  Ros. Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
    And so all yours. O! these naughty times
    Or like an idle thresher with a flail,  
    And, to begin, wench- so God help me, law!-
    Pucelle is ent'red into Orleans

  PRINCE OF WALES. And take his thanks that yet hath nothing else.
    Had my sweet Harry had but half their numbers,
  IACHIMO. Which the gods have given you?
    able, and yet reserve an ability that they never perform; vowing
    I know thy errand, I will go with thee;
    We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
    Of seeming sorrow- it is sure your own.
  Host. So I told him, my lord, and I said I heard your Grace say so;
  Usurping ivy, brier, or idle moss;
    To me should utter, with demure confidence
  CAMILLO. Sicilia cannot show himself overkind to Bohemia. They were
  HERMIA. His folly, Helena, is no fault of mine.
    [To VIOLA] Your master quits you; and, for your service done
  SCARUS. O my brave Emperor, this is fought indeed!
  MARCUS. Brother, for in that name doth nature plead-
    Whose church-like humours fits not for a crown.
    It useth an enforced ceremony.
    me villain and baffle me.
  BRUTUS. I am not well in health, and that is all.
    Forsake the court. To do't, or no, is certain
  PUCK. How now, spirit! whither wander you?
    Nor forward of revenge, though they much err'd.
  No it was builded far from accident,
    Make rich the ribs, but bankrupt quite the wits.
    In equal rank with the best govern'd nation;
    But only slaught'red by the ireful arm
  King. Thy loving father, Hamlet.
  ARMADO. This Hector far surmounted Hannibal-
    Unknown to you, unsought, were clipp'd about
    Good traders in the flesh, set this in your painted
    Was nothing but mutation- ay, and that
    Agree to any covenants; and procure
  PRINCE. What wouldst thou think of me if I should weep?
    'Tis dry enough-will with great speed of judgment,


  TRANIO. Saw you no more? Mark'd you not how her sister
  Kent. Who's there, besides foul weather?
  BUCKINGHAM. Health and glad tidings to your Majesty!
  A living dead man. This pernicious slave,
    Nay, let 'em be unmanly, yet are follow'd.
  Beat. I am sure you know him well enough.
    her reputation, her marriage vow, and a thousand other her
  MARCIUS. Were half to half the world by th' ears, and he
    Men's flesh preserv'd so whole do seldom win.

    day with a companion of the King's who is intituled, nominated,
    thee too. And while thou liv'st, dear Kate, take a fellow of
    Doth this become your place, your time, and business?
    He shall here find his friends, with horse and men,
    I slew the coward, and did take it from him.
    [Aside] Whom have we here? Buckingham, to disturb me?
    Those in commission yet return'd?
  KATHERINE. Your Majesty shall mock me; I cannot speak your England.
  YORK. Lay hands upon these traitors and their trash.
    Of my cousin Vernon's are not yet come up.
    And that, by great injunctions, I am bound
     Which are too intrinse t' unloose; smooth every passion
    My sword, made weak by my affection, would
    The emptying of our fathers' luxury,
    The treason and you go in peace away together.

    anything with it?
  ANTONIO. I pray thee hear me speak.
    skein of sleid silk, thou green sarcenet flap for a sore eye,
    Keep yet their hearts attending on themselves,
    go with me-I'll be horn mad.                            Exit
    Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
    Or what is worst will follow.
    As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
  QUEEN MARGARET. Plantagenet doth quit Plantagenet,
  CAESAR. I do not much dislike the matter, but
    strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of Nature's
    That I have seen inhabit in those cheeks?
  KING HENRY. We charge you, on allegiance to ourself,
  FIRST SERVANT. Ay, and for an assault too.

  Guil. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly.
  STANLEY. So deal with him as I prove true to you.         Exit
    To a new-crowned monarch; such it is
    roarers for the name of king? To cabin! silence! Trouble

    Strange tortures for offenders, never heard of,
  And reigned commanding in his monarchy.
    And that my master slew him.
    Were play'd in jest by counterfeiting actors?
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  Mine eye, my heart thy picture's sight would bar,

    Sit down with us. It ill befits thy state
    The gravity and stillness of your youth
  Herein you war against your reputation,
  Ah wherefore with infection should he live,
     Most choice, forsaken; and most lov'd, despis'd!
    But for the sunset of my brother's son
    Durst make too bold herald of my tongue;
  FIRST SERVING-MAN. Nay, if we be forbidden stones, we'll
                             [Putting a paper crown on his head]
LUCENTIO'S house
    Our royal, good, and gallant ship; our master
    To undertake the death of all the world
    The imminent decay of wrested pomp.
    is; and there's her thrumm'd hat, and her muffler too. Run
    Be happy that my arms are out of use;
  Albeit my wrongs might make one wiser mad.
    man, and young Dropheir that kill'd lusty Pudding, and Master
    thine.

  SHEPHERD. None, sir; I have no pheasant, cock nor hen.
    And fits the mounting spirit like myself;
    Appears before them and with solemn march
    As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
  Pedro. But, soft you, let me be! Pluck up, my heart, and be sad!
    Did follow to his um.

  HUBERT. Young boy, I must.
    Being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut. What, ho! apothecary!
  Leon. Come, cousin, I am sure you love the gentleman.
    deceiv'd you both; I have directed you to wrong places;
    Of some such thing?
    inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it. I loved you
  Thou blind fool Love, what dost thou to mine eyes,
    I leave him to your hand. What muffl'd fellow's that?

  Kent. No contraries hold more antipathy


  PROSPERO. My brave spirit!
  CLOTEN. Do you call me fool?
    And I beseech you hear me, who professes

    But for the rest: you tell a pedigree
    The third o' th' world is yours, which with a snaffle
    Me for my dumb thoughts, speaking in effect.
    Which neither here I'll keep nor bear again,


  BEROWNE. A lemon.
    Her times of preservation, which perforce
    He hath a person and a smooth dispose
    And when I urg'd the ransom once again
    Farewell the plumed troop and the big wars

    Then fools you were these women to forswear;
                                  [Sits down at Ophelia's feet.]  
  CLIFFORD. And reason too:
    And on your family's old monument
    Till thou dost hear me call.  
  Our dates are brief, and therefore we admire,
    strikes a man more dead than a great reckoning in a little room.
    You lean'd unto his sentence with what patience
    call honourable boldness impudent sauciness; if a man will make
    To come again to Carthage.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    And he himself not present? O, forfend it, God,  
    honest; and those that she makes honest she makes very
  KING RICHARD. Ay, if your self's remembrance wrong
  TIMON. Nay, an you begin to rail on society once, I am sworn not to
    Sirrah, what made your master in this place?
    For these contempts.  [Aside]  Why, thus it shall become
  FIRST AND SECOND LORDS. Alcibiades banish'd!
    He should have brav'd the east an hour ago.
    heart,' as the goodly saying is,  
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Five hundred ducats, villain, for rope?
    Security, I'll pawn my victories, all
    And drive his purpose on to these delights.
    First, Marcus Brutus, will I shake with you;
  DICK. The first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers.
    'The time shall come'- thus did he follow it-
    He is wit's pedlar, and retails his wares
    I have awhile given truce unto my wars
  Thus vainly thinking that she thinks me young,
    When fame shall in our island sound her trump,
    Or slunk not Saturnine, as Tarquin erst,
    thy master for wages follows not thee. Therefore, thou art a
    Would scatter all her spices on the stream,
  CAITHNESS. Well, march we on
Scene II.
  CLOWN. Will you make me believe that I am not sent for you?
The Florentine camp
    I needs must think it honesty. Camillo,
  Glou. Where is the villain, Edmund?
  KING HENRY. God keep me so! Our heralds go with him:
    I am the Douglas, fatal to all those
    For we do fear the law? What company
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    I was always plain with you, and so now I speak my agitation of

  MARTEXT. Is there none here to give the woman?
    delivered, put the liveries to making, and desire Gratiano to
  Edm. About it! and write happy when th' hast done.
    Think every bearded fellow that's but yoked
    Join'd with a masker and a reveler!
  Urs. And did they bid you tell her of it, madam?
    That the great figure of a council frames
  ULYSSES. Nestor!
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    That can translate the stubbornness of fortune
  STANLEY. Let me but meet you, ladies, one hour hence,
  PROSPERO. Thou and thy meaner fellows your last service
  SLY. Al'ce madam, or Joan madam?
    After young Arthur, claim this land for mine;
    Make thine own edict for thy pains, which we
  ALEXAS. Soothsayer!
    And when my uncle told me so, he wept,
    That both should speed?
    In zeal to you, and highly mov'd to wrath

    Not Priamus and Hecuba on knees,
  LE BEAU. Three proper young men, of excellent growth and presence.
    And feebling such as stand not in their liking  
  HELEN. My Lord Pandarus, honey-sweet lord-

  SICINIUS. The lamb.
  ARVIRAGUS. The night to th' owl and morn to th' lark less welcome.
    The other rotted with delicious feed.
  Edm. This speech of yours hath mov'd me,
    government, being governed as the sea is, by our noble and chaste
    If thou dost find him tractable to us,
    A merrier day did never yet greet Rome,

    Thine eye begins to speak, set thy tongue there;
    In their embracement, as they grew together;
    That here by mountaineers lies slain. Alas!
    coward, but I would give a thousand pound I could run as fast as
    Whose state so many had the managing
  TIMON. 'Tis, then, because thou dost not keep a dog,
    She had just cause.
    Make the sun dance. Hark you!               [A shout within]
  THERSITES. If to-morrow be a fair day, by eleven of the clock it
  That we must curb it upon others' proof,
    My love as deep; the more I give to thee,
  PANDARUS. YOU have no judgment, niece. Helen herself swore th'
  CORIOLANUS. You should account me the more virtuous, that I have
    lady.
  ENOBARBUS. What's your pleasure, sir?
    To beautify him only lacks a cover.
    Come pat betwixt too early and too late
    uncle, the Duke my father, so thou hadst been still with me, I
    Roaring for Troilus; who hath done to-day
    And you the judges, bear a wary eye.
England. The DAUPHIN'S camp at Saint Edmundsbury
  CONSTANCE. Ay, who doubts that? A will, a wicked will;
  ESCALUS. How dost thou know that, constable?  
     Heaven and earth! Edmund, seek him out; wind me into him, I pray
    Of our most gracious mistress.
    As thou shalt be, if thou didst kill this child.

  RUMOUR. Open your ears; for which of you will stop
                     drums and trumpets
    To his own use he keeps, and sends me word
    A villain, that is hither come in spite
    But still sweet love is food for fortune's tooth.          Exeunt
    I think I have his letter in my pocket.
  CLOWN. Alas, poor man! a million of beating may come to a great
    Dissentious numbers pest'ring streets than see
  COUNTESS. It hath happen'd all as I would have had it, save that he
  Kent. No, sir; but you have that in your countenance which I would
    That you, his friend, are in; and sends me forth-
    Are we undone, cast off, nothing remaining?
    We two, that with so many thousand sighs
  SUFFOLK. May you be happy in your wish, my lord!  
    you.
    tap, and so part fair.
    married to Pistol
  MAECENAS. He'll never yield to that.
    How wildly then walks my estate in France!
  I must each day say o'er the very same,
    Write them together, yours is as fair a name;
  POLIXENES. We were as twinn'd lambs that did frisk i' th' sun
  GRUMIO. I confess two sleeves.

    Withdraw thee, Valentine. Who's this comes here?
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
                      Enter OLD CLIFFORD  
  PAROLLES. My life, sir, in any case! Not that I am afraid to die,
  CORIOLANUS. Marcius!
    phrases are surely, and ever were, very commendable.
Enter IMOGEN alone, in boy's clothes
    Seek out King John, and fall before his feet;
    protest, her frown might kill me.

    Spare none but such as go in clouted shoon,
    till you had recovered your ancient freedom. But you are all
    have sent for you.
                 [Seats himself between ANNE BULLEN and another lady]
                                                   Alarum still.
  LAUNCE. Why, that word makes the faults gracious. Well, I'll have
  Beat. 'Tis almost five o'clock, cousin; 'tis time you were ready.
  ROSS. No mind that's honest
    But what, a God's name, doth become of this?
    My lungs began to crow like chanticleer
  NATHANIEL. Marvellous well for the pen.
                                                          Exeunt

    perturbation of the brain. I have read the cause of his effects
  TITUS. Faint-hearted boy, arise, and look upon her.
    And here have I the daintiness of ear
    sonnet is: 'Please one and please all.'
    You would not make me such an argument.  
    Without corrival all her dignities;  
    Thy life-blood out; if Aaron now be wise,
    Nature dispenses with the deed so far
     what I can tell.
     When I have show'd th' unfitness-

  RUTLAND. Ah, whither shall I fly to scape their hands?
  LAFEU. 'Twas a good lady, 'twas a good lady. We may pick a thousand
    grace?
    There lives or dies, true to King Richard's throne,
  BOTTOM. Well, I will undertake it. What beard were I best to play  
  MRS. PAGE. Prithee hold thy peace.
                           Enter SUFFOLK
    Twin-born with greatness, subject to the breath
    You that thus far have come to pity me,
    I see thee yet, in form as palpable
  EXETER. Here comes the herald of the French, my liege.
         Cuckoo, cuckoo'- O word of fear,
             With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
    You, Edward, shall unto my Lord Cobham,
  CORIOLANUS. Let them hang.
    And all the fellowship I hold now with him
    And thou opposed, being of no woman born,
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Would they speak with me?
    And with a sudden vigour it doth posset
  LUCIO. Not better than he, by her own report.
    Of all that virtue love for virtue loved;

    Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
  FORD. And did he search for you, and could not find you?
  TITUS. Long have I been forlorn, and all for thee.
    Which scorns a modern invocation.
    That to their everlasting residence,
    By this account, then, Margaret may win him;



                     Enter PISTOL and HOSTESS
  WIDOW. The troop is past. Come, pilgrim, I will bring you
  Edm. If the matter were good, my lord, I durst swear it were his;
  ENOBARBUS. Caesar' sister is call'd Octavia.
    You had of her pure honour gains or loses
  CASSIUS. Then leave him out.
  Lady. You are too hot.
  POLIXENES. Say there be;
    You did mistake.
    Go with my brothers to my lords of England;
    Than in the pride and salt scorn of his eyes,
    His bounty overplus. The messenger
  BEROWNE. A dangerous law against gentility.
  JULIA. Out, out, Lucetta, that will be ill-favour'd.
    Which any print of goodness wilt not take,

    Would have shed water out of fire ere done't;
    matter for the King that led them to it; who to disobey were
    Neither have I money nor commodity
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Here Goths have given me leave to sheathe my sword.
    Methinks I play as I have seen them do
  SECOND LORD. I with a troop of Florentines will suddenly surprise  
  MOTH. Hercules, master.
    I would not understand it.
    abuses!
    tish ill done, tish ill done; by my hand, tish ill done!


    'A slave' without a knock.
  VALENTINE. Well, then, I'll double your folly.
    From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth,
  Rom. [aside] Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this?

  TIMON. I will dispatch you severally- you to Lord Lucius; to Lord
  MRS. OVERDONE. What! is there a maid with child by him?
  Alb. Gloucester's eyes?
  I hope I shall have leisure to make good;
    He swore had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
    He's never anything but your true servant.
    But thou hast sworn against religion
    Would I admit; no name of magistrate;  
Enter Kent, [disguised].
    I'll find some cunning practice out of hand
    Come, sister. Shepherdess, look on him better,
    in despite of the teeth of all rhyme and reason, that they
  YORK. Now, by my troth, if I had been rememb'red,
    Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow
  WINCHESTER. Com'st thou with deep premeditated lines,
    As well as I had seen and heard him speak;
    In hand, and hope of action; but we do learn,
             SUFFOLK, SOMERSET, WARWICK, EXETER,
    And, kinsmen, then we may go pipe for justice.
    When that a ring of Greeks have hemm'd thee in,
  ULYSSES. She will sing any man at first sight.
    That fill the court with quarrels, talk, and tailors.
    From most true wretchedness. So thou, Posthumus,
  HUBERT. Arm you against your other enemies,
  FORD. Went you not to her yesterday, sir, as you told me
         Then nightly sings the staring owl:
  GENTLEMAN. What's your will?
  HIPPOLYTA. This is the silliest stuff that ever I heard.
  POMPEY. They shall stand for seed; they had gone down too, but that
    him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation
    The pangs of barr'd affections, though the King
    To change the cod's head for the salmon's tail;
    If you do sweat to put a tyrant down,
  KING. And wherefore should these good news make me sick?
     one whom I will beat into clamorous whining, if thou deny the
    But to be known and hated. So, like gross terms,
  LUCIUS. Ah, that this sight should make so deep a wound,
  QUICKLY. Give your worship good morrow.
     This shameful lodging.
  LEPIDUS. Soft, Caesar!
    If e'er thou wast thyself, and these woes thine,
    That laid their guilt upon my guiltless shoulders.
    Since from thee going, he went wilful-slow,
    Do or undo, as if ourself were here.
    shall see a masque, but if you do, then it was not for nothing
    O Phebe, Phebe, Phebe!                          Exit Silvius
    If e'er I lov'd her, all that love is gone.


    Gives us more palm in beauty than we have,
    Farewell, Lavinia, my noble sister;
    That Henry's death, my lovely Edward's death,
    Makes me to ask you for my purse? It grieves me
    Zeal and obedience he still bore your Grace,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    grace, I hope-that were a trick indeed! But Mistress Page
    Lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd
  Beat. Foul words is but foul wind, and foul wind is but foul
    to lie, as a woman should not do but in the way of honesty; how
    That you express content; which we will pay
                  Enter the KING, and attendants

    at our feet but a weak and worthless satisfaction. To this add
    That done, laugh well at me.
  PLEBEIANS. Yield, Marcius, yield.
    Makes our hopes fair. Command our present numbers
                    Re-enter PATROCLUS
    Are ent'red in the Roman territories,
    Authorized by her grandam. Shame itself!
    If you dare fight today, come to the field;  
    Might so have tempted him as you have done
  ROSALIND. I might ask you for your commission; but- I do take thee,
    Hath nobly held; our sever'd navy to

     You justicers, that these our nether crimes
    That gives our Troy, our Rome, the civil wound.
    Menas; if our eyes had authority, here they might take two
    With that same weak wind which enkindled it.
    An advocate for an impostor! hush!
  SECOND SERVANT. Who, my master?
    I was too hot to do somebody good
  Queen. How fares my lord?
  Sailor. 'A shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for you,
    Desires you let the dukedoms that you claim
    being a professed tyrant to their sex?
  GLOUCESTER. Good morrow to my sovereign king and
    Are ministers of Fate; the elements
    our affairs. God forgive us our sins! Gentlemen, let's look to
    Of that fell poison which assaileth him.
    [To ORLANDO] You to a love that your true faith doth merit;
  THIRD MESSENGER. Such proclamation hath been made,
  AUDREY. Do, good William.
  SATURNINUS. And you have rung it lustily, my lords-
    bare land, manured, husbanded, and till'd, with excellent
  SPEED. Marry, sir, the letter, very orderly; having nothing but the

    Ne'er may he live to see a sunshine day
Enter CLOTEN alone
    The scope of justice; till now, myself, and such
1599
    But I am doubtful of your modesties,
    Zounds! I was never so bethump'd with words  
    Those will I muster up, and thou, son Clarence,
    The future in the instant.
Enter the KING, PRINCE THOMAS OF CLARENCE, PRINCE HUMPHREY OF GLOUCESTER,
    Or something hath the nothing that I grieve;  
    The will of man is by his reason sway'd,
    Passing through nature to eternity.  
    Like to a little kingdom, suffers then
  BRUTUS. Another general shout!
                            Enter HELENA

    'Friend,' quoth I 'you mean to whip the dog.' 'Ay, marry do I'
  SECOND LORD. Here comes the King.
  VALENTINE. Why then I would resort to her by night.
    As banks of Libya-though, Apollo knows,
  CELIA. Prithee, who is't that thou mean'st?
    Shall not make poor my greatness, nor my power
    Fortune's fingers. Farewell. She that would alter services with
    So vanish'd; which foreshow'd our princely eagle,
    Visit by night your lady's chamber window
AEGEON. I am sure you both of you remember me.
  KING PHILIP. Brother of England, you blaspheme in this.
  BOYET. Tapers they are, with your sweet breaths puff'd out.
  IAGO. Thou art sure of me- go, make money. I have told thee often,
    partly proud, which he is, even to the altitude of his virtue.

  Each eye that saw him did enchant the mind;  
  On newer proof, to try an older friend,
    aglet-baby, or an old trot with ne'er a tooth in her head, though
DUKE. Come, stand by me; fear nothing. Guard with halberds.
    Let us have knowledge at the court of guard.
            Padua, and PETRUCHIO'S house in the country
    Of this escape, and whither they are bound;
    That screws me from my true place in your favour,
    Sir Edward Courtney and the haughty prelate,
    With repetition of my Romeo's name.

  PANDARUS. Pray thee, get thee in. Would thou hadst ne'er been born!
    About their functions friendly.
    He presently, as greatness knows itself,
  OTHELLO. Avaunt! be gone! Thou hast set me on the rack.
    The middle centre of this cursed town.
  TALBOT. Then follow thou thy desp'rate sire of Crete,  
    He is enfranchised and come to light.
  CORIOLANUS. First, hear me speak.
    convoy; who came off bravely, who was shot, who disgrac'd, what

    The presentation of but what I was,  
    And say 'What is't your honour will command,
    She is a gallant creature, and complete
    Mine ears, that heard her flattery; nor my heart
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. In what part of her body stands Ireland?
    Ten thousand harms, more than the ills I know,
    How furious and impatient they be,

    Which should bedeck thy shape, thy love, thy wit.
    No more a Briton, I have resum'd again
  IMOGEN. You are my father too, and did relieve me
    Have I liv'd to be carried in a basket, like a barrow of
    I will avouch't in presence of the King.
  SECOND CITIZEN. Whither are you going?
    For sundry weighty reasons.
    as it is, as dangerous to be aged in any kind of course as it is
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. He that commends me to mine own content
    daughter without asking my good will?
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  OTHELLO.            Damn her, lewd minx! O, damn her!
    Give it an understanding but no tongue.
                                               Exit HUBERT with PETER
    Our mistress' sorrows we were pitying.
    Then must my sea be moved with her sighs;
    Than this: that nothing do I see in you-
    As of her tongue she oft bestows on me,
    will wash off gross acquaintance, I will be point-devise the very
    By all the battles wherein we have fought,
    Under the counterfeited zeal of God,
    Be drained! Let me embrace thee, Ajax.
                                Flourish. Exeunt all but Hamlet.
    Ah, Humphrey, can I bear this shameful yoke?
    For here I read for certain that my ships
    For I shall never speak to thee again.
  COSTARD. I have a letter from Monsieur Berowne to one
    We'll over-reach the greybeard, Gremio,
    Lay by all nicety and prolixious blushes
    Goes to and back, lackeying the varying tide,
    The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit.

  BASTARD. How did he take it; who did taste to him?
    It strikes where it doth love. She wakes.
  BAPTISTA. Y'are welcome, sir, and he for your good sake;
    From Alcibiades to Timon's cave
    With flight and agued fear! Mend and charge home,
    These three have robb'd me; and this demi-devil-  
    Of breaking honesty. Horsing foot on foot?
    [A confused noise within: Mercy on us!
    And with a care exempt themselves from fear:
    By foul play, as thou say'st, were we heav'd thence;
    And death, not Romeo, take my maidenhead!

  BASTARD. Thither shall it, then;
  GUIDERIUS. There is cold meat i' th' cave; we'll browse on that
    Which fourteen hundred years ago were nail'd
Venice. Before SHYLOCK'S house
    Was broke in twain; by whom I have forgot,
    beholders take his part with weeping.
    the last time he search'd for him, in a basket; protests to
  SMITH. [Aside] But now of late, not able to travel with her furr'd
  ALL. That's our offer.
  KING HENRY. Harry le Roy.  
    That you take with unthankfulness his doing.
  EROS. It does, my lord.
    By bare imagination of a feast?
  Alb. Speak, man.  
    Or do you almost think, although you see,
    cry 'Well done, Hercules; now thou crushest the snake!' That is
    I give thee thanks in part of thy deserts,  
  PAROLLES. That is not the Duke's letter, sir; that is an
    Come, let's away; the strangers all are gone.        Exeunt.
    Nor cheer of mind that I was wont to have.
    a contemptible spirit.
         Into something rich and strange.
    That, when the brains were out, the man would die,
    The fire that mounts the liquor till't run o'er
    You cannot tent yourself; be gone, beseech you.
    As being thought to contradict your liking,
    As justice, verity, temperance, stableness,

    You may look pale, but I should blush, I know,
      To desperation turn my trust and hope,
    After distasteful looks, and these hard fractions,
    Are in great grievance: there have been commissions
    is 'long of you.
    Of thy unnatural uncle, English John.

  DUCHESS. Was't I? Yea, I it was, proud Frenchwoman.
  And taught it thus anew to greet:
                                     and LUCENTIO with the books
    without affection, audacious without impudency, learned without
  When all my best doth worship thy defect,
    Let's mock the midnight bell.
    In the quick forge and working-house of thought,
  PAINTER. I am glad y'are well.
  BEROWNE. Now, God save thy life!
      Earl of Kent.
  CHARMIAN. Hush!
    Profaning this most honourable order,
    And, though unskilful, why not Ned and I
    Of horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd
                             Enter Kent.
    But if an humble prayer may prevail,
    So sacred as it is, I have done sin,
    I do not fly; but advantageous care
  Jul. Madam, I am not well.
  Fal. Ah, no more of that, Hal, an thou lovest me!
    Judge, O you gods, how dearly Caesar loved him!

  DUKE. He dies for Claudio's death.
  SAY. So might your Grace's person be in danger.
  And arts with thy sweet graces graced be.
  TOUCHSTONE. By my troth, yes; I count it but time lost to hear such
    was Crab, and goes me to the fellow that whips the dogs.
    As praises, of whose taste the wise are fond,
    Where words are scarce, they are seldom spent in vain;
  ULYSSES. O, courage, courage, courage, Princes! Great
    Have not the power to muzzle him; therefore best

  Mother. Alack the day, she's dead, she's dead, she's dead!

  KING EDWARD. Nay, stay, Sir John, a while, and we'll debate
     To follow in a house where twice so many

    With this remembrance- that you use the same
    If you will take this audit, take this life,
  HELENA. O excellent!
    To a lady of France that he call'd Rosaline.

    You must consider that a prodigal course
    Touching thy spiritual function, not thy life.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Master, knock the door hard.
    Thou art my friend that know'st my tongue so well.
    What dangers, by his Highness' fail of issue,
    Like a ripe sister; the woman low,
    For Henry, son unto a conqueror,
  And in our sight they three were taken up
    That shall have cause to curse the Dauphin's scorn.
     That she that even but now was your best object,
    He shall be satisfied and, by my honor,
    O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;
    The time misord'red doth, in common sense,
     My lord and master.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Hecuba.

  Bene. When I know the gentleman, I'll tell him what you say.
  Clown. (sings)
    Therefore love moderately: long love doth so;
    And the contrarious winds that held the King  
                                       Exeunt FALSTAFF and ROBIN
    Praying for both parts.
  ESCALUS. [Aside] Well, heaven forgive him! and forgive us all!
  Nor send him forth that we may bear him hence.
    It is your pleasure to command me in.
  VALENTINE. Pardon me, Proteus; all I can is nothing
SECOND MERCHANT. These ears of mine, thou know'st, did hear thee.
    Vain Thurio, whom my very soul abhors.

  VIOLA. Who governs here?
     That to our sister you do make return;
    To bear this tidings to the bloody King.
    And your supply, which you have wish'd so long,  
  And precious phrase by all the Muses filed.
  BIONDELLO. The better for him; would I were so too!
Enter LEONTES, LORDS, and OFFICERS
Dramatis Personae
    would once use our hearts, whereby we might express some part of
  KING HENRY. Master Lieutenant, now that God and friends
  EXETER. And I, I hope, shall reconcile them all.        Exeunt
    thee silent.
  
    Good husband, let us every one go home,  
    This murder had not come into my mind;
     Our means secure us, and our mere defects
                 Re-enter PUCK and DEMETRIUS
  return'd.
  CASSIUS. A friendly eye could never see such faults.
    you, my masters. Was it for me to kill the heir apparent? Should
  Glou. No words, no words! hush.
    Of us too much belov'd. Let us be clear'd
  LORENZO. In such a night
  I see their antique pen would have expressed,
  CYMBELINE. Her doors lock'd?
  ROSALINE. Why, that's the way to choke a gibing spirit,  
                     Re-enter QUEEN  
    Among a mineral of metals base,
  BOTTOM. You were best to call them generally, man by man, according
  Her hair, nor loose nor tied in formal plat,
    This gentleman, whom I call Polydore,

    I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth

         Alarum. Drums and trumpets. Enter AGRIPPA
    Timon.
    buy for our sheep-shearing feast? Three pound of sugar, five
    Thou hast appointed justices of peace, to call poor men before
  TIMON. [Aside] Excellent workman! Thou canst not paint a man so bad
  FIRST WITCH. Banquo and Macbeth, all hail!

    And stick them in our will. Sixth part of each?
    Begot of nothing but vain fantasy;
    Myself by with a needle, that I might prick
  POMPEY. I could have given less matter
  KING. I am wrapp'd in dismal thinkings.
    Which from the womb I did participate.
     So long as we can say 'This is the worst.'
    Nestor-like aged in an age of care,
    In the very end of harvest!

    All the argument is a whore and a cuckold-a good quarrel to draw
    That shall be rack'd, even to the uttermost,
    And so I take my leave, and thank you both.
  LAFEU. All that he is hath reference to your Highness.
    In bringing them to civil discipline,
     And my heart breaks at it.  
    hath any honesty in him.
    By fearing to attempt. Go to Lord Angelo,
    She may more suitors have, and me for one.
    Strength match'd with strength, and power confronted power;
    Conduct me to the Queen.
  CAMILLO. Yes; if there were no other excuse why they should desire  
    Grant us your loves.
  I from my mistress come to you in post;

  KATHARINE. Sir, I most humbly pray you to deliver
    Begin to chase the ignorant fumes that mantle

    And live a subject? Nay, forsooth, my friends,
  CONSTABLE. And yet my sky shall not want.
    the players in the theatre, I am no true man.
    Now Romeo is belov'd, and loves again,
        And Phoebus 'gins arise,
  HELENA. My wish receive,

    Show me the way of yielding.
    I clear'd him with five talents. Greet him from me,
    Aside, aside- here is more matter for a hot brain. Every lane's
    Would more have strength'ned this our commonwealth
    That your activity may defeat and quell

    He wrung Bassanio's hand; and so they parted.
  CAMBRIDGE. So may your Highness, and yet punish too.
  Ham. And do still, by these pickers and stealers!
    Is true of mind and made of no such baseness
    it agrees well, passant; it is a familiar beast to man, and
    their fog.

  PAULINA. Do not you fear. Upon mine honour, I
  Claud. Stand thee by, friar. Father, by your leave:
  OLIVIA. Why, then, methinks 'tis time to smile again.
    But, by the forge that stithied Mars his helm,
    And we beseech you, bend you to remain
  PHEBE. Dead shepherd, now I find thy saw of might:
    To thee particularly, and to all the Volsces,
    and so forth. Ah, good old Mantuan! I may speak of thee as

                             SCENE 2.
    Having all day carous'd and banqueted;
    O, take this warm kiss on thy pale cold lips.  [Kisses TITUS]

    Whose motive in this case should stir me most
  FLUELLEN. Captain Jamy is a marvellous falorous gentleman, that is
    Of kerns and gallowglasses is supplied;
SCENE 3.
    How may the Duke be therewith satisfied,
    ladyships, you may see the end; for the best is yet to do; and
    Well, Angelo, your evil quits you well.
    And fall thy edgeless sword. Despair and die.
    With all the nearest things to my heart, as well
    A woman that Lord Brutus took to wife.

  NYM. My humour shall not cool; I will incense Page to deal
    In deputation left behind him here
    My father- methinks I see my father.
    rascally boy, that abuses every one's eyes, because his own are
    That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so quaintly
  WARWICK. Ay, see the bishop be not overborne.
SCENE 2.
    Moist Hesperus hath quench'd his sleepy lamp,
    That visit my sad heart.
  And thereupon these ERRORS are arose.
    No harm, I trust, is done?
    But it sufficeth that the day will end,
  Ben. Strike, drum.

    For I have heard my grandsire say full oft
                             Enter SPEED
    And rapt in secret studies. Thy false uncle-

    Withal, what I have been, and what I am.
    not stay for him to kill him? Have I not, at de place I did
    Thou must be made immortal. Where's Barnardine?
    the pomewater, who now hangeth like a jewel in the ear of caelo,
    Do not believe him. o, behold this ring,
    Our steed the leg, the tongue our trumpeter,
    I only swore to study with your Grace,
    Shall drop their blood in approbation
    Portia is Brutus' harlot, not his wife.
  SHALLOW.  [Within]  Sir John!

    King John, this is the very sum of all:
    Made to write "whore" upon? What committed?
    not for prisoners to be too silent in their words, and therefore
    Thou hadst but power over his mortal body,
  COUNTESS. An end, sir! To your business: give Helen this,
    Almost no better than so many French;
  Queen. Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    For single combat in convenient place,
    fire in a flint, which will not show without knocking. The man's
  Gent. No.
    My Lord Protector will, I doubt it not,
    Strong both against the deed; then, as his host,
    And that same prayer doth teach us all to render
    A man of great authority in France,
    Whilst what we have kill'd be cook'd.
    are yet within me.
  WARWICK. Injurious Margaret!
    I am ambitious for a motley coat.
    But send him back.
    'Gainst thee, thou lamb, that standest as his prey;

  KING HENRY. O loving uncle, kind Duke of Gloucester,
    Which never shall be found- you did suspect
    presently.                            Exeunt HOSTESS and BOY
    Further I will not flatter you, my lord,
  Pedro. Good morrow, Benedick. Why, what's the matter
    I pray thee stay with us, go not to Wittenberg.
ABBESS. Renowned Duke, vouchsafe to take the pains
    Concerning the French journey. I replied

    benefit of sleep and do the effects of watching! In this slumbery
  POMPEY. [Aside to MENAS] Go, hang, sir, hang! Tell me of that!
    Of my true mother.
    Which you denied me. Was that done like Cassius?
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Where Philomel gave up. I have enough.
    Now Phaethon hath tumbled from his car,
    Sword, hold thy temper; heart, be wrathful still:
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    of provocation, I will shelter me here.      [Embracing her]
  That you for love speak well of me untrue,
    is sick.
  THERSITES. He'll tickle it for his concupy.
    I should, and thou couldst not. My queen and Eros

  Ham. Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through
    More than to see this ring. Take him away.
    Our daughter Mary. I' th' progress of this business,
    Is richly noted, and here justified
    The innocent mansion of my love, my heart.
  CAPTAIN. True, madam, and, to comfort you with chance,
    The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth.
     On him, on you, who not? I will maintain
    Which seem'd too much enkindled, and withal
    vomit ere the next pottle can be filled.
  KING RICHARD. Stand all apart. Cousin of Buckingham!
    That thus you should proceed to put me of
    make you understand this in a manifested effect, I crave but four
  Hero. So you walk softly and look sweetly and say nothing,

ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. How dost thou mean a fat marriage?
    The mariners, say how thou hast dispos'd,
    Cannot a plain man live and think no harm
    The rest do nothing- with this word 'Stand, stand!'
    The day, my friends, and all things, stay for me.     Exeunt
  BERTRAM. Let that go.
  Pol. Not I, my lord.


    Of our so frank donation. Well, what then?
  PAROLLES. Faith, sir, he did love her; but how?
    Of my dear friend. What should I say, sweet lady?
and the boy flies from her with his books under his arm.
    And so extenuate the forehand sin.

Corioli. A public place
  ISABELLA. Let me hear you speak farther; I have spirit to do

    Then everything includes itself in power,
  FALSTAFF. Is thy name Wart?
  IAGO.                 Good my lord, pardon me;
    Before you venture for me. I could teach you
    Uncover, dogs, and lap.        [The dishes are uncovered and
  BOTTOM. I pray you, commend me to Mistress Squash, your mother, and

    I am so angry at these abject terms;
    his wife, Baptista. You shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. For two; and sound ones too.
  And new pervert a reconciled maid.'

    Hath too much mangled; whose repair and franchise
    That did the like for Fleance. If thou didst it,
    See how my wretched sister sobs and weeps.
    He makes for England here to claim the crown.
  YORK. No matter, then, who see it.
    flame-colour'd stock. Shall we set about some revels?
    They are in readiness.
    assembly but horn-beasts. But what though? Courage! As horns are
  KATHARINE. What, was your vizard made without a tongue?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Let her have needful but not lavish means;
    Look him i' th' face.
  BEROWNE. One word in secret.
  CASSIO. What, ho! No watch? No passage? Murther! Murther!


    Here must I stay, and here my life must end.
                Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
    He whin'd and roar'd away your victory,
    That vulture in you to devour so many
  KING. Farewell, mad wenches; you have simple wits.  
    I' th' parts of France, till term of eighteen months
  LAUNCE. Nothing.
    number of shadows fill up the muster-book.
    Cowards father cowards and base things sire base.
    the doors. Watch to-night, pray to-morrow. Gallants, lads, boys,
    How now? What news?
    Of my young Harry. O that it could be prov'd
    he promis'd her marriage. His child is a year and a quarter old
  ANTONY. I am sorry to give breathing to my purpose-
    Some war with rere-mice for their leathern wings,
    But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
  Hot. Not so, Sir Walter. We'll withdraw awhile.
    And well shall you perceive how willingly
    Behind the arras hearing something stir,
          O heart, heavy heart,
    The Princess Dowager? How goes her business?

    Scratching her legs, that one shall swear she bleeds  
    upon me to wash your liver as clean as a sound sheep's heart,
  FIRST LORD. What got he by that? You have broke his pate with your
SCENE 4.
  BASTARD. It lies as sightly on the back of him

FORD'S house
    There is no hope that ever I will stay
   Enter CAESAR, AGRIPPA, DOLABELLA, THYREUS, with others
    He could so quickly cut the Ionian sea,
    Is this a holiday? What, know you not,
    From some forefather grief; mine is not so,
    Be valiant, and give signal to the fight.
  FIRST MURDERER. I am strong-fram'd; he cannot prevail with
    perpetual motion.

    Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother!
  PANDARUS. Nay, I'll give my word for her too: our kindred, though
    Upon his peril, that I have reserv'd

  ROSALIND. As wit and fortune will.
  Glou. Ay, sir.
    And all at once, once more a happy farewell.
    As I can change these poor accoutrements,
    Methinks the realms of England, France, and Ireland,
    Or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
    And hews down oaks with rushes. Hang ye! Trust ye?
    'Con tutto il cuore ben trovato' may I say.
    paved with English faces.
    If ever mortal eyes do see them bolster
    Visit the speechless sick, and still converse
    Of homage, and I know not how much tribute,
    O that I were a glove upon that hand,
              Take off his miseries.
    And I to sigh for her! to watch for her!
    We carry not a heart with us from hence
  TIMON. Cut my heart in sums.
    Crowns what you are doing in the present deeds,
  If snow be white, why then her breasts are dun:
    If with the sap of reason you would quench
    And for my wife I know not how it stands.
    Nor longer stay in your curst company.
  ALL.  [To RICHMOND]  Awake, and think our wrongs in
    Where is thy head? Where's that? Ay me! where's that?
    And rob in the behalf of charity.
    Of dreaded justice, but on the ministers
    Shall thy old dugs once more a traitor rear?
    Whose minister you are, whiles here He liv'd
    Than hew to't with thy sword.
    [To CLEOPATRA] To Caesar I will speak what you shall please,
    And I am ready to put armour on.'

  CASSIUS. Who offered him the crown?
    and I'll be married to-morrow. [To ORLANDO] I will satisfy you if
  MALCOLM, elder son of Duncan
    Became a bricklayer when he came to age.
    'Tis pity they should take him for a stag.
  ENOBARBUS. Why, then we kill all our women. We see how mortal an
  PANDARUS. Sweet queen, sweet queen; that's a sweet queen, i' faith.
    To force a spotless virgin's chastity,
    Take him away, and behead him.
  LONGAVILLE. Pray you, sir, whose daughter?  
    I do appoint him store of provender.

    Attend me, lords. The proud insulting Queen,
    Most grossly by his own!
          Hung their heads and then lay by.  
    That ever blotted paper! Gentle lady,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Thou art a villain to impeach me thus;
                                              Exit with the body
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
London. The palace
    Inclining to them both. Were my wife's liver
    Knowing that tender youth is soon suggested,
    They are as innocent as grace itself.
  JESSICA. I would out-night you, did no body come;
     Our eldest-born, speak first.
    so, let them do so. Let me see; where is Mouldy?
  FIRST CITIZEN. Our business is not unknown to th' Senate; they have
    And help the joy.                                     Exeunt
A seaport in Cyprus. An open place near the quay.
    The crowns will take.
    Pity may move thee 'pardon' to rehearse.
    Than man could give him, he died fearing God.

  So then thou hast but lost the dregs of life,
  Par. I do defy thy, conjuration
    he was in woman's apparel, I would not have had him.
    Fall Greeks; fail fame; honour or go or stay;
    against me; he stands there like a mortar-piece, to blow us.
    Is to exchange one misery with another,
  ROSALIND. Jove, Jove! this shepherd's passion
    And this same progeny of evils comes
  CONSTABLE. O diable!
                           SCENE V.
    It is too starv'd a subject for my sword.
    Not for the fliers. Mark me, and do the like.
  CHARLES THE SIXTH, King of France
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE

    Honour'd with confirmation your great judgment
  SALERIO. O, ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly
    Thus honest fools lay out their wealth on curtsies.
  PROTEUS. Ay, gentle Thurio; for you know that love

    very day that young Hamlet was born- he that is mad, and sent


  SHERIFF. An't please your Grace, here my commission stays;
    cunning in protestation; only downright oaths, which I never use
    I lost my liberty, and they their lives.
    Only for them, and mine eternal jewel  

    And first fruits of my body, from his presence
  THERSITES. Sweet draught! 'Sweet' quoth 'a?
    Well, I doubt not but to die a fair death for all this, if I
    I beseech you, look into Master Froth here, sir, a man of

    As he from heaven merits it, with you,  
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    indeed the tears live in an onion that should water this sorrow.
    Now he is gone, my lord, you need not fear.
  For know, my love, as easy mayst thou fall

    I'll follow and enquire him out.
  ESCALUS. Well, sir, what did this gentleman to her?
    Yet left in heaven as small a drop of pity
    As I remember, this should be the house.
  KING EDWARD. Take heed you dally not before your king;
  Corn. Hail to your Grace!
    A weak bond holds you; I'll not trust your word.
    For 'tis a damned slave.       Exeunt all but Othello and Emilia.
    You should not have the eminence of him,
    My babes were destin'd to a fairer death,
    Our masquing mates by this time for us stay.

    Unto his son Lorenzo and his daughter.

    But Timon's silver treads upon his lip;
    Why seek'st thou me? Could not this make thee know
    My gorgeous palace for a hermitage,
  QUEEN. Now God in heaven forbid!
                                                   [Walks apart]
    This way will I. Disrobe the images

    Since guiltiness I know not; but yet I feel I fear.
  FLUELLEN. It is not well done, mark you now, to take the tales out
    And that the Earl of Surrey, with the rod.
                     Enter four or five SERVINGMEN
  ARMADO. And so, farewell.
  CLEOPATRA. You can do better yet; but this is meetly.
  Ben. Here comes Romeo! here comes Romeo!
    courses till thou know'st what they are.
    I have in quick determination
     I will have such revenges on you both  
    To seem to die ere sick. So please you, leave me;
  Some in their wealth, some in their body's force,
    Pardon me, sweet one, even for the vows
    All yet seems well; and if it end so meet,
  PETRUCHIO. Be patient, gentlemen. I choose her for myself;
    Shapes faults that are not- that your wisdom yet,

    Hume, if you take not heed, you shall go near
    beyond credit-
  PANDARUS. Helenus! no. Yes, he'll fight indifferent well. I marvel
     Pull off my boots. Harder, harder! So.
    But had his titles by Tenantius, whom
  OLIVIA. Alas, Malvolio, this is not my writing,
    And even as willingly at thy feet I leave it

    Will one day end it.
    to give to a nobleman! Look here he comes himself.
    o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be players that I
    fish, but an islander, that hath lately suffered by
  FABIAN. I would exult, man; you know he brought me out o' favour
  EVANS. Pray you give me my gown; or else keep it in your
            CHIRON, DEMETRIUS, and their attendants  
    "Brutus, thou sleep'st: awake!"
    And, like the baseless fabric of this vision,
     There shall he sit till noon.
  CLEOPATRA. O most false love!
    To buy his will, it would not seem too dear,
  BASTARD. No, I will speak.
    And ere thou bid good night, to quit their griefs
  Fool. Dost thou know the difference, my boy, between a bitter
  Thou mak'st faults graces, that to thee resort:
  CLARENCE. I shall be reconcil'd to him again.
    I'll leave you to your fortune and be gone
    Your power and your command is taken off,
    Out of the King's protection. This is my charge.
    turn'd away- is not that as good as a hanging to you?
by William Shakespeare
     Come on, my boy. How dost, my boy? Art cold?
    Which heaven hath forbid the Ottomites?
    Who should succeed the father but the son?
    Would try him to the utmost, had ye mean;
The wood. TITANIA lying asleep
    Whose ruin you have sought, that to her laws
  ANNE. I mean, Master Slender, what would you with me?
  FIRST OUTLAW. Come, I must bring you to our captain's cave;
    Gives him a worthy pass. Here comes my clog.
    in the old church window, sometime like the shaven Hercules in
  SHALLOW. I know the young gentlewoman; she has good

  VIOLA. This is as uncivil as strange. I beseech you do me this
    We must extend our notice. Our dear son,
  Glend. Nay, if you melt, then will she run mad.
    My words express my purpose.
  CHAMBERLAIN. This is the King's ring.
    so loud and so melancholy. But notwithstanding, man, I'll
    us.
    Take hold on me; for my particular grief
  IMOGEN. I have read three hours then. Mine eyes are weak;
    The King t' attach Lord Montacute and the bodies

    Make large confusion; and, thy fury spent,
  CLARENCE. O my royal father!
    Your mistress shall be happy.  
  QUEEN. Who shall hinder me?
    No heart among you? Or had you tongues to cry

COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  FORD. In good sadness, sir, I am sorry that for my sake you
    They place before his hand that made the engine,
    And waste for churlish winter's tyranny.
    dead.                         Exeunt POSTHUMUS and MESSENGER
    An old thing 'twas, but it express'd her fortune,
    Unless self-charity be sometimes a vice,
    The face of Caesar, they are vanished.
    custom of entertainment.
  BRUTUS. Such an exploit have I in hand, Ligarius,
    But, like a timorous thief, most fain would steal
    A hoop of gold to bind thy brothers in,
    I long to talk with the young noble soldier.
  Both. Arm'd, my lord.
  CLOWN. No pains, sir; I take pleasure in singing, sir.
    By this discovery lost. Be not uncertain,
  ACHILLES. Who's there?

  DESDEMONA. And have you mercy too! I never did
  Kissing with golden face the meadows green;
  SPEED.  [Calling]  Madam Silvia! Madam Silvia!
Bury St. Edmunds. A room of state
  CLOWN. O Lord, sir!-Why, there't serves well again.
    were to issue out of one skull, they would fly east, west, north,
    A dearer merit, not so deep a maim
    so, with no money at all and a little more wit, return again to
    sheep-whistling rogue, a ram-tender, to offer to have his
           I will not to wedding with thee.

  MALVOLIO. Madam, yond young fellow swears he will speak with you. I
  EMILIA. In troth, I think I should, and undo't when I had done.
  GREMIO. For this reason, if you'll know,
    And you all know security
    Wilt thou not, Jule?' It stinted, and said 'Ay.'
    Like the base Indian, threw a pearl away
    What doth concern your coming.
  BEROWNE. I am a fool, and full of poverty.
    As I upon advantage did remove,
  Urs. But are you sure
  BAPTISTA. Talk not, Signior Gremio; I say he shall go to prison.
    Thou shalt be loggerhead. [Exit Fellow.] Good faith, 'tis day.

  BUSHY. Wherein the King stands generally condemn'd.
    All punish'd in the person of this child,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  COSTARD. O Lord, sir, the parties themselves, the actors, sir, will
    To keep by policy what Henry got?

    Majesty, do not cast away an honest man for a villain's
    My intercession likewise steads my foe.
    To bear his image and renew his glories!
    We purpose her no shame. Give her what comforts
  I pray you see him presently discharg'd,
  MACBETH. 'Twas a rough fight.
  HOLOFERNES. Dictynna, goodman Dull; Dictynna, goodman Dull.

  There left me and my man, both bound together;
    That I did love, for now my love is thaw'd;
    If we have lost so many tenths of ours
    He's flung in rage from this ingrateful seat
    Who would be so mock'd with glory, or to live
  AARON.  [Aside]  If that be call'd deceit, I will be honest,
    A stranger to thy thoughts.
    If ever he have wife, let her be made
    In following this usurping Henry.
  DUKE. This is most likely!

    (Howeer you come to know it) answer me:
    good enough for him.
    That hath more scars of sorrow in his heart
    Some haunted by the ghosts they have depos'd,
  By those swift messengers returned from thee,
    That satiate yet unsatisfied desire, that tub
    And chiefly therefore I thank God and thee;
    Upon what cause, wrong you? Alas, our places,

    But, being over-full of self-affairs,
    Do plainly give you out an unstain'd shepherd,
    Together with the seal o' th' Senate, what

    And furious close of civil butchery,
    men.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Alas, poor Maccabaeus, how hath he been baited!
  SPEED.  [Aside]  And yet you will; and yet another' yet.'
  HASTINGS. We are time's subjects, and time bids be gone.
  CAPTAIN. He's alive, my lord.
    This is the very ecstasy of love,
  But surely, master, not a rag of money.
    The very head and front of my offending  
  Bene. You take pleasure then in the message?  
  ANTONY. The Queen shall then have courtesy, so she
    Now, noble Charmian, we'll dispatch indeed;
  CRESSIDA. Who's that?
  PUCELLE. What you do, good grey beard? Break a
    He shall be happy that can find him, if
    To be so baited, scorn'd, and stormed at.
  IAGO. Ha! I like not that.
  PROVOST. A man that apprehends death no more dreadfully but as a  

    O faithless coward! O dishonest wretch!
    ringing in the King's affairs upon his coronation day, sir.
    And quickly bring us word of England's fall.          Exeunt
    What halloing and what stir is this to-day?
    Most noble Caesar, shalt thou have report
    Would any of the stock of Barrabas

    Rather than purchas'd; what he cannot change
    Bear our hack'd targets like the men that owe them.
    The myst'ry of your loneliness, and find
            Because thou art not seen,

    The form of plausive manners, that these men
    both upon two poles hither.
    Or for men's sake, the authors of these women;
  COSTARD. We will turn it finely off, sir; we will take some care.
    Or shall we cut away our hands like thine?
    Shall e'er divorce my dignities.
    As the last taste of sweets, is sweetest last,
    certain, and of great expedition and knowledge in th' aunchient
    As if his life lay on 't.
      Signior Placentio and His lovely nieces;
    Where he himself was lost; Prospero his dukedom  
    When went there by an age since the great flood
    Repented o'er his doom.
    That ever-living man of memory,  

  JESSICA. Well, I'll set you forth.                      Exeunt
    his reputation with the Duke, and to his valour; what is his
    For so you shall be while you are a man;  
    Have here deliver'd me to my sour cross,
    Peace! here she comes.
    I have no strength to pluck thee to the brink.
    Which He hath giv'n for fence impregnable,
    Please you, deliberate a day or two.  
    Through ranks of Greekish youth; and I have seen thee,
    Outsells them all. I love her therefore; but
  PISANIO. [Aside] It is my mistress.
      Enter WOLSEY and CAMPEIUS with a commission
    trot.

    As one near death to those that wish him live.
    Which, I protest, hath very much beguil'd
  so fast?
    Here lies thy heart, thy sinews, and thy bone.  
    Which you are out of, with a gentler spirit,
      Knights attending on Lear, Officers, Messengers, Soldiers,
  THIRD SERVANT. O, this it is that makes your lady mourn!
    That he is march'd to Bordeaux with his power
     As this instructs thee, thou dost make thy way
                         [March. WARWICK and his company follow]
    To your remembrances; but you have found,
    More than was ever man's, I would not prize them
    But such a one, thy vassal, whom I know
    Which you before so urg'd, lies in his answer.
     This sword, this arm, and my best spirits are bent
  ANTONIO.  [Aside to SEBASTIAN]  Let it be to-night;
    I muse we met not with the Dauphin's grace,
     To hold my very course. Prepare for dinner.
    Have just our theme of woe; but for the miracle,
    Sirs, take you to your tools. You, cousins, shall
  Verg. O, a stool and a cushion for the sexton.
    go to.
    On your suggestion.
    bring you together, let all pitiful goers- between be call'd to

[Beating him]
    Is done unto thy hand. The last she spake
    you must die. Come, headsman, of with his head.
     Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire are my daughters.
    side the town.
    [Knocks]  What, hoa! Got pless your house here!

  HASTINGS. To us no more; nay, not so much, Lord Bardolph;
  PAGE. Son, how now! how now, son! Have you dispatch'd'?
    A man already made, as to remit
    Be not self-willed for thou art much too fair,
    immortal passado! the punto reverse! the hay.
  GENTLEMEN. We'll wait upon your lordship.                   Exeunt.
  PAROLLES. I am a poor man, and at your Majesty's command.
    And fetch shall echoes from the hollow earth.
  Pedro. By my troth, I speak my thought.
  SIR TOBY. [Sings] Shall I bid him go, and spare not?
    Why had I not with charitable hand  
  Ham. Of him, sir.
  FALSTAFF. From the court? Let him come in.
     By some discretion that discerns your state
    To execution and the hand of death.
    Romans, of five and twenty valiant sons,
    Come, Nerissa. Sirrah, go before.
  BRUTUS. Now, good Metellus, go along by him.
  Kent. Why, fool?
    Fall parti-colour'd lambs, and those were Jacob's.
  Prince. What! he did not?
    All the expected good w'are like to hear
    Shall be this cold corpse on the earth's cold face;
    Do it without invention, suddenly;
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Claudio!
    And mark the fleers, the gibes, and notable scorns,
  SECOND LORD. Three great oaths would scarce make that be believed.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Brave warriors, Clifford and Northumberland,
  TROILUS. Die I a villain, then!
    To prove him, in defending of myself,
    His favour is familiar to me. Boy,
    Should be to be protected like a child.
  DESDEMONA. Faith, half asleep.
    The holding every man shall bear as loud
    In all his dressings, characts, titles, forms,
  DUKE SENIOR. I like him very well.
    They come like sacrifices in their trim,
    And I, in such a desp'rate bay of death,
  MARCUS ANDRONICUS, Tribune of the People, and brother to Titus

    Or we'll burst them open, if that you come not quickly.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. He that hath lost her too. So is the Queen,
     I know you do not love me; for your sisters
  MARIA. In the wars; and that may you be bold to say in your
    His youngest son- and would not change that calling
  CELIA. Orlando.
    foul shirts and smocks, socks, foul stockings, greasy
    When I should take possession of the bride,
    Secure of thunder's crack or lightning flash,
  VIRGILIA. No, at a word, madam; indeed I must not. I wish you much
    has he sent now?

    That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
  CELIA. Ay. Fare you well, fair gentleman.

<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    And from the great and new-made Duke of Suffolk;
    The very firstlings of my heart shall be
  CHIEF JUSTICE. I hope, not dead.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    So, proceed you.
  FALSTAFF. Comes the King back from Wales, my noble lord?
    I will despair, and be at enmity
    Another way I have to man my haggard,
    in controversy between the Jew and Antonio the merchant; we
  OTHELLO. Was that mine?
    These earthly godfathers of heaven's lights
    To give me hearing.
    To one so meek, that mine own servant should
    Against th' invulnerable clouds of heaven;
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Good Lord! you use this dalliance to excuse
    And make this marriage to be solemniz'd.
    And to the manner born, it is a custom
you- but, indeed, to pray for the Queen.

Troy. The court of PANDARUS' house
    These two young gentlemen that call me father,
  PISTOL. Si fortuna me tormenta, spero me contenta.
                        Enter Cassius.
    Have mind upon your health, tempt me no farther.
    Watch thou and wake, when others be asleep,
    And the ebb'd man, ne'er lov'd till ne'er worth love,
Enter SIR RICHARD RATCLIFF, with halberds, carrying the Nobles,
    And Talbot perisheth by your default.
    come to Berwick, from whence they came.
    Fly o'er thy royal head, and shade thy person
  Signior Andpholus, I wonder much
    Inform'd.
  PANDARUS. Rude, in sooth; in good sooth, very rude.
  TROILUS. Hector, thou sleep'st;
  Mon. O thou untaught! what manners is in this,

    To match my friend Sir Thurio to my daughter.
                [Benedick advances from the arbour.]
ADRIANA. Go, Dromio, there's the money; bear it straight,
  COUNTESS. Porter, remember what I gave in charge;
    you should refuse to perform your father's will, if you should
    She did corrupt frail nature with some bribe
    beloved more than the man that gives it. Let no assembly of
    I will not send them. I will after straight
    That every stride he makes upon my land
    But whether they be ta'en or slain we hear not.
    O heaven, that such companions thou'ldst unfold,
    With all your just proceedings in this cause.

    Would they were blanks rather than fill'd with me!
    Nothing more dear to me. You are abus'd
  TUBAL. I often came where I did hear of her, but cannot find her.
    Been struck so to the soul that presently
  COSTARD. I shall know, sir, when I have done it.
    most courteous feathers, which bow the head and nod at every man.
                     Enter a GUARDSMAN
  FALSTAFF. I did not think Master Silence had been a man of this
  ROSALINE. We did not quote them so.
    and heir to Mars; set at upper end o' th' table; no question
  ANTONIO. I could not stay behind you: my desire,
    Did not offend, nor were not worthy blame,
    a pepper box. But, lest the devil that guides him should aid
  PORTIA. And you must cut this flesh from off his breast.
  Pol. The time invites you. Go, your servants tend.
    You have Christian warrant for 'em, and no doubt
     To take the basest and most poorest shape
    Nor ever will be rul'd.
    Sir boy, I'll whip you from your foining fence!
  ROSALIND. Why then, 'tis good to be a post.
  MALCOLM. 'Tis his main hope;
    'Tis now the very witching time of night,
    And hung their rotten coffins up in chains,
    Should, in their own confines, with forked heads
    Be thou a flatterer now, and seek to thrive
    Barbary horse; you'll have your nephews neigh to you; you'll have
  Osw. Very well, madam.
  If we obey them not, this will ensue:
    parler. Comment appelez-vous la main en Anglais?
    they'll tell all.
    Macedon; and there is also moreover a river at Monmouth; it is
    Shall, after three days' open penance done,
  KING HENRY. Well then, I know thee; what shall I know of thee?
    Yet hath a woman's kindness overrul'd;
    And are you grown so high in his esteem
    Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
    And left thee to the mercy of the law.
    But by fair sequence and succession?
     Make with you by due turns. Only we still retain
    That from the seedness the bare fallow brings
Enter FLAVIUS, with two or three SERVANTS
  TROILUS. No, Pandarus. I stalk about her door
    Sith every action that hath gone before,
  KING RICHARD. Why, Buckingham, I say I would be King.
    But in this troublous time what's to be done?
    of no having: he kept company with the wild Prince and
ACT II. SCENE I.
    Being a bark to brook no mighty sea-
    A brain that nourishes our nerves, and can

    O Tamora! was ever heard the like?
  LEONTES. Ha?
    Thy country's strength and weakness- thine own ways,
    Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
    Which, whiles it lasted, gave King Henry light.
    Disguis'd like Muscovites, in shapeless gear;
    I thank ye all. To you, my good Lord Mayor,
  Fal. Didst thou? Lord, Lord, how this world is given to lying! I
    Ten thousand bold Scots, two-and-twenty knights,
  POMPEY. Sir, I will serve him; for I do find your hangman is a more
  DESDEMONA. I have sent to bid Cassio come speak with you.
    That thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.
    Therefore I part with him; and part with him
  Nurse. O Tybalt, Tybalt, the best friend I had!
     equalities are so weigh'd that curiosity in neither can make
    I beseech your Majesty give me leave to go;
    Of his own chamber and used their very daggers,
  Poland winter. If she lives till doomsday, she'll burn
  CASSIO.             The Duke does greet you, general,
  GLOUCESTER. Sweet saint, for charity, be not so curst.  
                      CAESAR'S camp
  PERDITA. I'll not put
  ANNE. And I with all unwillingness will go.
    By strangling thee in her accursed womb,
    Whence honour but of danger wins a scar,
    No more of stay; to-morrow thou must go.
 Exit  

    One bred of alms and foster'd with cold dishes,
  Doug. As heart can think. There is not such a word
    of sack finely.
    Thou damned and luxurious mountain-goat,
    Lord Hastings will not yield to our complots?
  Ham. Do you think I meant country matters?

  DECIUS. Caesar, all hail! Good morrow, worthy Caesar!
    And you, base peasants, do ye believe him? Will you needs be
  Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
    I would that I were low laid in my grave:  
    Greece. When thou art forth in the incursions, thou strikest as
  Nor by what wonder you do hit of mine-
    Of Roman gentlemen by the Senate sent.
  TIMON. I hate thee worse.
    For me to try how; all I know of it
AEGEON. Yet this my comfort: when your words are done,
  PEDANT. Keep your hundred pounds to yourself; he shall need none so
    Advanc'd above pale envy's threat'ning reach.
                                             [Edgar interposes.]
    To dusty nothing-yet let memory
    And will upon the instant put thee to't:
  ESCALUS. I am going to visit the prisoner. Fare you well.
    For his quick hunting, stand the putting on,
    Lord, I'll stab thee.
                        Exeunt all but Macbeth and Lady Macbeth.
             'I may command where I adore;
                 Enter Sir Walter Blunt.


  ANTONIO. If but one of his pockets could speak, would it
    puppies. I have professed me thy friend, and I confess me knit to
    The lag end of their lewdness and be laugh'd at.
  COUNTESS. A very tainted fellow, and full of wickedness.
           He is gone, he is gone,
  Osr. It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
    Come, if the Emperor's court can feast two brides,
  Con. All this I see; and I see that the fashion wears out more
    Disasters in the sun; and the moist star

    Best in all Athens. Th'art indeed the best;
    Charg'd our main battle's front, and, breaking in,
    when I am King of England I shall command all the good lads
  Against this coming end you should prepare,
           March. Enter MONTGOMERY with drum and soldiers

    And yet I know thou wilt.
    To hold a rival place with one of them,
  Prince. Well then, once in my days I'll be a madcap.
  SECOND LORD. It does; but time will- and so-
  Par. Do not deny to him that you love me.
  IAGO. Not this hour, lieutenant; 'tis not yet ten o' the clock. Our
    Still to return your own.  
  CLOTEN. The first service thou dost me, fetch that suit hither. Let
  OCTAVIA. My lord, in Athens.  
  HORTENSIO. Petruchio, go thy ways, the field is won.

    Of a poor worm. Thy best of rest is sleep,  
    Is Cadwal mad?
    Who told me, when we both lay in the field
    And what a prisoner.  
  MOWBRAY. Then thus I turn me from my countrv's light,
    Your fire-new stamp of honour is scarce current.
  PHEBE. I'll write it straight;
  TIMON. You make me marvel wherefore ere this time
    Are sanctified and holy traitors to you.
    In fellest manner execute your arms.
                     84
  BOTTOM. Scratch my head, Peaseblossom.
  VALENTINE. Indeed, madam, I seem so.
    Desire to breed by me. Here's flow'rs for you:
    But for containing fire to harm mine eye.  
  MARCUS. O Titus, see, O, see what thou hast done!
    and weep, and thou must look pale and wonder.
    Be crown'd with plagues, that thee alone obey!
    Think on Lord Hastings. Despair and die.
  KATHARINE. So do not you; for you are a light wench.
  Claud. Nay, but his jesting spirit, which is new-crept into a

  FABIAN. Here comes my noble gull-catcher.
  Ham.   A whole one I!
  SECOND LORD. [Aside] She shines not upon fools, lest the reflection
    For I am she, and altogether joyless.
    fellow enough, go to! and a fellow that hath had losses; and one
    Lives not to act another. Be satisfied;
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Yet thou didst kill my children.
  KING. My faith and this the Princess I did give;
  CLOWN. Why, he will look upon his boot and sing; mend the ruff and
    To one whom they had punish'd.
    And calls your Grace usurper, openly,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    He who shall speak for her is afar off guilty
  My sweet love's beauty, though my lover's life.
    An ancient angel coming down the hill
    And process of this time, you can report,
    I charge you, as you hope to have redemption
    In her days every man shall eat in safety
    that is but a kind of bastard hope, neither.
                                          [Presenting HORTENSIO]
    I'll send him certain word of my success.
  GRATIANO. Cassio?
    Then wherefore dost thou hope he is not shipp'd?
  BEROWNE. To hear, or forbear hearing?
    To send them to you only for this night;
  IAGO. If I can fasten but one cup upon him,
    If friend or foe, let him be gently used.
    Who mak'st a show but dar'st not strike, thy conscience
                     43
    Upon our joint and several dignities.
    That I may prompt them; and of such as have,
  DOLL. Better than I was- hem.
    Shall we go, coz?
    To whom it must be done.
    How could he see his way to seek out you?
    Are confident against the world in arms.
    Good uncle, tell your tale, for I have done.
    And hardly keeps his men from mutiny,
    her; I'll be reveng'd of her.
    Alack, for lesser knowledge! How accurs'd
    And so, my good Lord Mayor, we bid farewell.

    The wrinkles in my brows, now fill'd with blood,
  Nurse. My fan, Peter.
    May send forth plenteous tears to drown the world!  
ACT II. SCENE I.
    But I beseech your Grace that I may know
    Ten thousand French have ta'en the sacrament
  BARDOLPH. The army is discharged all and gone.
    therefore he gives them good leave to wander.
    You'll nothing, madam, to my lord by me?  
    Forthwith that Edward be pronounc'd a traitor,
  APEMANTUS. No, I will do nothing at thy bidding; make thy requests
    Say, gentlemen, what makes you thus exclaim,
    deliver'd such a show'r of pebbles that I was fain to draw
    No, indeed, ist not; and I would to heaven
    Who if he break thou mayst with better face
    That I have worn so many winters out,
    For I'll not kill thee there, nor there, nor there;  
    When I have spoke of you dispraisingly
  TROILUS. What should they grant? What makes this pretty abruption?
  SEBASTIAN. I think he will carry this island home in his
    Of some strange nature, letting it there stand
    Fie, how my bones ache! What a jaunce have I had!
    Henceforth we banish thee on pain of death.
  AJAX. An all men were a my mind-
    From all the slaughters, wretch, that thou hast done!
    I will omit no opportunity
  AARON.  [Aside]  Ay, and as good as Saturninus may.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Stay, Edward.

  SILVIA. I thank you, gentle servant. 'Tis very clerkly done.
    O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt
    That Katherine and Petruchio should be married,
    For, by the honour of my parents, I
    I do give lost, for I do feel it gone,
     Who hast not in thy brows an eye discerning
    The griefs between ye- to forget them quite
    I can recover him, and keep him tame, I will not take
  ROSALINE. What would they, say they?  
    And, Princes, look you strongly arm to meet him.
ACT I. SCENE 1
  Come in the rearward of a conquered woe,

  ISABELLA. True.
    God pardon all oaths that are broke to me!
  OLD ATHENIAN. Most noble lord,
  SIR TOBY. She'll none o' th' Count; she'll not match above her
  FLAVIUS. Pray you walk near; I'll speak with you anon.
  FIRST SENATOR. O, forget  
  BLANCH. My uncle's will in this respect is mine.
    So shouldst thou either turn my flying soul,
  TITUS. Mark, Marcus, mark! I understand her signs.
    With fatal mouths gaping on girded Harfleur.
  BEROWNE. Lo, he is tilting straight! Peace; I have done.

    ne'er left man i' th' mire.
    Than what I fear, for always I am Caesar.
  GEORGE BEVIS, JOHN HOLLAND, DICK THE BUTCHER, SMITH THE WEAVER,
    A dagger of the mind, a false creation,

    O, now I need the priest that spake to me!
    And I will speak, that so my heart may burst.
    because they would go thither; so indeed all disquiet, horror,
  CHIRON. It shall not live.
  HOSTESS. Ay, come, you starv'd bloodhound.
    Toward the King, my ever royal master,
   By testament have given to the church
     Whose nature is so far from doing harms
    That any accent breaking from thy tongue
    Why to a public count I might not go
    And the detention of long-since-due debts,
    Let me embrace with old Vincentio;
                 Item, Anchovies and sack after supper.  ii s. vi d.
    With tristful visage, as against the doom,

  BOYET. With libbard's head on knee.
    Whereof ingrateful man, with liquorish draughts
  TITUS. These words are razors to my wounded heart.
    Might liquid tears, or heart-offending groans,
    Of what it likes or loathes. Now, for your answer:  
    So honour cross it from the north to south,
    And well said too; for who shall go about
    that old white-bearded Satan.
    of what complexion soever; and so buffets himself on the
  When in the streets he meets such golden gifts.
  Jul. Give me, give me! O, tell not me of fear!
    Or, being open, put into his hands
  GRATIANO. I am glad on't; I desire no more delight

  THERSITES. Hold thy whore, Grecian; now for thy whore,
    And all things shall be well, I warrant thee, wife.
 ELY. But what prevention?
                                        Thy lover, Artemidorus."

    Worse than the mutinies in the bilboes. Rashly-
                     Trebonius, and Cinna.
  GLOUCESTER. Then never was man true.
    So safely ordered that there is no soul-
    Now begin;
    Yield up, O love, thy crown and hearted throne
  Claud. Who wrongs him?

  SHYLOCK. Antonio is a good man.
    shalt be free.
      No drop but as a coach doth carry thee;
  POSTHUMUS. No, no.
    rehearse, though credit be asleep and not an ear open: he was  
    That here were well begun and well begot;  
    reservation of your wrongs. He is my good lord: whom I serve
    Who hath been still a giddy neighbour to us;
    For Warwick was a bug that fear'd us all.
    For Edward's sake, and see how he requites me!
    On what condition stands it and wherein?
    Was mutually committed.
    Some poison'd by their wives, some sleeping kill'd,
    As we have seen him in the Capitol,
    Nothing goes right; we would, and we would not.         Exit
The English camp
    With faces fit for masks, or rather fairer
                                         [Putting on a red rose]
  GLOUCESTER. Sweet Prince, the untainted virtue of your
    We make him lord of. Call the Lady Constance;
    To Agamemnon. Go we to him straight.
  PAGE. You have, Master Slender; I stand wholly for you. But
  
    In the vile prison of afflicted breath.
    When thou shalt bring me word she loves my son,
  CORIOLANUS. How? no more!
    And be in Padua here Vincentio's son;
  
    whipstock. My lady has a white hand, and the Myrmidons are no
    for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me?
    He cannot so precisely weed this land  
  CAESAR. He calls me boy, and chides as he had power
    He has been known to commit outrages
    Blows you to Padua here from old Verona?
  BANQUO. Worthy Macbeth, we stay upon your leisure.
    Must you be therefore proud and pitiless?
     The argument of your praise, balm of your age,
  MAYOR. But, my good lord, your Grace's words shall serve
    Let's drink together friendly and embrace,
  RICHARD. Ay, now methinks I hear great Warwick speak.
    As hush'd on purpose to grace harmony!
  FALSTAFF. To have her, or no. Go; say the woman told me

Rome. The Forum
  FIRST CITIZEN. Let us kill him, and we'll have corn at our own
    When all our pageants of delight were play'd,
  MALCOLM. Macduff, this noble passion,
  CELIA. Alas, he is too young; yet he looks successfully.
    From off our coast, twice beaten; and his shipping-
  TOUCHSTONE. Instance, briefly; come, instance.
    thee; but be not afraid of greatness. Some are born great, some  
    Witness the sorrow that their sister makes.
    I say, set on.                   Exuent in manner as they entered
    And all your southern gentlemen in arms
  Doug. Marry, and shall, and very willingly.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. I honour him
    By the bad voice.
    Is't not enough, is't not enough, young man,
    Is she worth keeping? Why, she is a pearl

   Before the Frenchman speak a word of it.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. I was by at the opening of the fardel, heard the
    Was made much poorer by it; but your son,
    Nothing but 'Mortimer,' and give it him
    Is she not down so late, or up so early?
    As not to know the language I have liv'd in;
    Where hope is coldest, and despair most fits.
    Is smother'd in surmise, and nothing is  
    The very way to catch them.
  CRESSIDA. Well, well, 'tis done, 'tis past; and yet it is not;
  TROILUS. Are there such? Such are not we. Praise us as we are
    That things ill got had ever bad success?
    And bring me how he takes my death. To th' monument!
  GLOUCESTER. Humbly complaining to her deity
    Can thereto frame his spirit.
    But let him from my thoughts. What think you, coz,
    think I shall never have the blessing of God till I have issue o'
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS

    Half all Cominius' honours are to Marcius,


    To knaves and all approachers. 'Tis most just
  KING. Methinks in thee some blessed spirit doth speak
  WOLSEY. So farewell to the little good you bear me.
    days' respite; for the which you are to do me both a present and
    Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour.
  PANDULPH. The Dauphin is too wilful-opposite,
    yourselves. Speak to 'em, fool.
    Than Hector is. The wound of peace is surety,
  TROILUS. Fear me not, my lord;
    thyself into the trick of singularity. She thus advises thee that
    In soothing them we nourish 'gainst our Senate
                                 [Throwing down SOMERSET'S head]
  SON. He has kill'd me, Mother.  
  SALERIO. Come, the full stop.
  HELENA. If I break time, or flinch in property
  CLOWN. He is but mad yet, madonna, and the fool shall look to the
    Be near me, that I may remember you.
  CLEOPATRA. He's very knowing;

    Which now the manage of two kingdoms must

  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. [ To the King] Ay, sweet my lord, and so I take
    be no more cakes and ale?
LUCIANA. God, for thy mercy! they are loose again.
     To deal with grief alone.
    The fields are near, and you are gallant grooms.
    We shall have shortly discord in the spheres.
    instigation, to prove him a knave and myself an honest man; and
    so they say the fool said, and so say I, and I am the fool. Well
    pray, in your good report.
      angry?
    Ere he should thus have ventur'd.
    The sword of our slain kings. Yet do not fear;
    For since the Cardinal fell that title's lost.
Enter the Empress' sons, DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, with LAVINIA,

1601
    Queen;
    And yet the eighth appears, who bears a glass
    Come, quench your blushes, and present yourself
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM, meeting
    Our thighs with wax, our mouths with honey pack'd,
  SHALLOW. Trust me, a mad host. Follow, gentlemen, follow.
  CALCHAS. [Within] Who calls?
  FIRST LORD. That was not to be blam'd in the command of the
    By heaven, I will acquaint his Majesty

                           Enter SERVANT
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
                           [Flourish. Trumpets sound, and drums]
     I pardon that man's life. What was thy cause?
  KING HENRY. Stoop then and set your knee against my foot;
  Oph. Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
    Bold, quick, ingenious, forward, capable.
  PETER. I know him for a man divine and holy;
  Laer. The devil take thy soul!
    Privy to none of this. How will this grieve you,
    Shall not behold her face at ample view;
    This valley fits the purpose passing well.
    uncurrent gold, be not crack'd within the ring.- Masters, you are
    Parts from this finger, then parts life from hence;
    and lovers are given to poetry; and what they swear in poetry may
    Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
    And forc'd to live in Scotland a forlorn;
    And therefore look you call me Ganymede.
    fartuous a civil modest wife, and one, I tell you, that will  
    for the place Where? where, I mean, I did encounter that obscene
    Bring me word how tall she is.- Pity me, Charmian,
    To the lascivious pleasing of a lute.
    Pursu'd him still And three nights after this,
    Hath caus'd to belch up you; and on this island
    of a most chaste renown; and this night he fleshes his will in
    Came not my friend nor I.

    And so good morrow, servant.                     Exit SILVIA
    Tell me if you love Warwick more than me?
  Kent. Sir, 'tis my occupation to be plain.
  NORFOLK. Like it your Grace,
  MARCUS. Renowned Titus, more than half my soul-

    him, I will help his ague. Come-Amen! I will pour some

  JOHN. Then let me stay; and, father, do you fly.
    Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
    Or why thou, being a subject as I am,
  KING RICHARD. But didst thou see them dead?
    Make those that do offend you suffer too.
  Nurse. Your lady mother is coming to your chamber.
  YORK. 'Twas my inheritance, as the earldom was.

    So doves do peck the falcon's piercing talons;
    But I had rather kill two enemies.
  
  FLUELLEN. It is with a good will; I can tell you it will serve you
  
    Thou mak'st thy bloody pillow? Or who was he
                     Enter Macduff.
    He must be taught, and train'd, and bid go forth;  
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  Gent. The arbitrement is like to be bloody.
    None else of name; and of all other men
                                      Exeunt JESSICA and LORENZO
  PROTEUS. I'll force thee yield to my desire.
    The dominations, royalties, and rights,
    As, walk'd your first queen's ghost, it should take joy
  So your sweet hue, which methinks still doth stand  
ACT IV. Scene I.
    I wish I could be made so many men,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    But all so soon as the all-cheering sun
    Now, for not looking on a woman's face,  
    And many limits of the charge set down
    Thus disorderly thrust into my hands,
    prove it.
    He fumbles up into a loose adieu,
  Edg. He is gone indeed.
    Unto the secret nameless friend of yours;
    Keep you your word, O Duke, to give your daughter;

  MESSENGER. The Ottomites, reverend and gracious,
    There is a word will Priam turn to stone;
    I muse you make so slight a question.
    I took by the throat the circumcised dog
    Am not I consanguineous? Am I not of her blood? Tilly-vally,

    'Tis but the pale reflex of Cynthia's brow;
  Prince. Sirrah, Falstaff and the rest of the thieves are at the
    But, as it seems, did violence on herself.
    of question and are most tyrannically clapp'd fort. These are now
    Which would be great impeachment to his age,
    My blood, my want of strength, my sick heart shows,
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Ay, almost slain, for he is taken prisoner;
                                                         Exeunt.
    His vacancy with his voluptuousness,
The WIDOW'S house

    I'll privily away. I love the people,
    See Brutus at his house. Three parts of him
  OLD LADY. With your theme I could
    But bid farewell, and go. When you sued staying,
  KING JOHN. They burn in indignation. I repent.
  CURIO. Will you go hunt, my lord?  
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. 'Tis likely,
  That I this day of him receiv'd the chain,
    Sundays.
  ANTONY. Now, by my sword-
    What viler thing upon the earth than friends,

    My troublous dreams this night doth make me sad.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Beauteous as ink- a good conclusion.
  JULIET. I do repent me as it is an evil,
  DUCHESS. Peace, children, peace! The King doth love you
Enter CLEOMENES and DION
    His trespass yet lives guilty in thy blood;
    Ceres' blessing so is on you.  
    Hate counsels not in such a quality.
    When he shall split thy very heart with sorrow,

    Of Learning, late deceas'd in beggary.'
  CRESSIDA. Nay, I'll watch you for that; and that's one of the
    When it is paid, bring your true friend along.
    Her brother's ghost his paved bed would break,
  Peto. Good morrow, good my lord.
  KING HENRY THE FOURTH
    Pedro. He hath borne himself beyond the promise of his age, doing
    And, like this insubstantial pageant faded,
    Until they hear the order of his death.
    That thou, Aumerle, didst send two of thy men
  Osw. Where may we set our horses?
    cousin.
  THURIO. Why, this it is to be a peevish girl

SCENE IV.
    And at that sight shall sad Apollo weep,
    Most ignorant of what he's most assur'd,
    Though they had wings. Slave, soulless villain, dog!

    Nor Gaunt's rebukes, nor England's private wrongs,
  KING. This haste hath wings indeed.
  CLOWN. O madam, yonder's my lord your son with a patch of velvet
  CLOWN, his son
  VIOLA. What country, friends, is this?
  BRUTUS. Under your pardon. You must note beside
    Why only, Suffolk, mourn I not for thee,
    The great doom's image! Malcolm! Banquo!
  SOMERSET. Ay, thou shalt find us ready for thee still;
    Stanley, I prithee go, and take me hence;
    He is afraid of me, and I of him.
    in with whoobub against his daughter and the King's son and
    The friends of France our shrouds and tacklings?
    Who grieves much for your weakness, and by me
  RICHARD. I'll prove the contrary, if you'll hear me speak.
    Bianca's grief.
    I that am honest, I that hold it sin
    As hazel-nuts, and sweeter than the kernels.
    To both your honours.
    Daughters to Baptista
    Our sorrow with our comfort.
    Haply to wive and thrive as best I may;
  TOUCHSTONE. Or as the Destinies decrees.
    He shall drink nought but brine; for I'll not show him
    thing loves him in my despite. What mortality is! Posthumus, thy
    Tom Snout, the tinker.
    a cup of sack with lime in it- a villanous coward! Go thy ways,
    make it another.
    I read as much as from the rattling tongue
  STRATO. Give me your hand first. Fare you well, my lord.  
  TIMON. I take all and your several visitations
  FLORIZEL. What, like a corse?
  RIVERS. Come, Grey; come, Vaughan; let us here embrace.
  SIMPCOX. Born blind, an't please your Grace.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  IACHIMO. Here are letters for you.
    Together with all famous colleges
    Than twenty of their swords! Look thou but sweet,
  MOTH. Offer'd by a child to an old man; which is wit-old.
    The Duke retain'd him his. But on: what hence?
    By this brave duke came early to his grave;
    To strike him dead I hold it not a sin.
                         CLOWN sings
  QUEEN. O, let me entreat thee cease! Give me thy hand,
      My herald thoughts in thy pure bosom rest them,

    That thunders, lightens, opens graves, and roars
    Whose repetition will be dogg'd with curses;
    If I begin the batt'ry once again,

    And set a double varnish on the fame
    But to make open proclamation.
    For thy escape would teach me tyranny,
    manner to do so.
    Lies in his hamstring, and doth think it rich
    Did ever so long live; no sorrow

    Old barren plants, to wail it with their age.
    And we be lords and rulers over Rouen;
    If fortune be not ours to-day, it is
                                                     [Unveiling]
    to discharge Pyramus but he.
    No prince nor peer shall have just cause to say,
    Doth burn the heart to cinders where it is.
  BELARIUS. So sure as you your father's. I, old Morgan,
    knows more of Anne's mind than I do; nor can do more
    We are like to have the overthrow again.
    As thou affects.
  KING HENRY. When Gloucester says the word, King Henry
  MORTON. You are too great to be by me gainsaid;
    But to confront the visage of offence?
    Convenient numbers to make good the city;  
    So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick.

    not; for he this very day receives letters of strange tenour,
  ARMADO. Sweet Majesty, vouchsafe me-
    Waking or sleeping, still my care hath been
    With sweetest touches pierce your mistress' ear.
  MALVOLIO. Madam, you have done me wrong,
  EROS. Nay, gentle madam, to him! Comfort him.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM

    Thy valiantness was mine, thou suck'dst it from me;
    as I. Besides this nothing that he so plentifully gives me, the
    who knew it.
    Hath been as continent, as chaste, as true,
  COLVILLE. Are not you Sir John Falstaff?
    Is not more smooth and rubious; thy small pipe
    I'll use to carry thee out of this place.
    With other princes that may best be spar'd,
    And where thou art not, desolation.  
  LYSANDER. Or else it stood upon the choice of friends-
    His arms thus leagu'd. I thought he slept, and put
   Incline to it, or no?

    Right joyful of your reformation.
  BULLCALF. O Lord! good my lord captain-

  BASTARD. Saint George, that swing'd the dragon, and e'er since
  WOLSEY. Your pleasure, madam?
    I rather would have lost my life betimes
    Nay, go not back.
    I utterly abhor, yea, from my soul
  KING RICHARD. Tell her the King, that may command,
    Say, why is this? wherefore? What should we do?
  DUMAIN. He's a god or a painter, for he makes faces.  
  Prince. Didst thou never see Titan kiss a dish of butter?
    Who cannot steal a shape that means deceit?
    If you'll employ me to him.
  FIRST SOLDIER. YOU are a merciful general. Our General bids you
  DIANA. Good my lord,
    Than this is all as true as it is strange;
  Ham. Yours, yours. [Exit Osric.] He does well to commend it

  Among a number one is reckoned none.
  Rey. My lord, I did intend it.
  FRENCH KING. Yes, my lord, you see them perspectively, the cities  

  WOLSEY. I am glad
    By this great clatter, one of greatest note
  But the defendant doth that plea deny,
  VALENTINE. Ay, my good lord, I know the gentleman
  HOST. Which means she to deceive, father or mother?
    rolls. In good truth, the poet makes a most excellent description
  ALL. Well contented.
  CROMWELL. And I.
  OLIVIA. Alas, poor fool, how have they baffl'd thee!

    Tend'ring our sister's honour and our own.
    When she was young you woo'd her; now in age
  VOLUMNIA. I know not where to turn.
    take it. I must take out the work? A likely piece of work that
    displeasures, and his indignations, and also being a little
  RODERIGO. Truly, I think they are.
    'Tis very true: my grief lies all within;
    The under-hangman of his kingdom, and hated
   For all the temporal lands which men devout
    Durst never meddle-in the soul of state,
    My acts, decrees, and statutes, I deny.
  Edm. Bethink yourself wherein you may have offended him; and at my
  ANNE. You are a merry gamester,
Before PAGE'S house
                       and ENOBARBUS
    'It is as hard to come as for a camel

    old motion, the expedition of thought? I have speeded hither with
    Falstaff, banish not him thy Harry's company, banish not him thy

    And that his friends by deputation could not
    And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay
  YOUNG CLIFFORD. Shame and confusion! All is on the rout;
  ANTONIO. This was a venture, sir, that Jacob serv'd for;
  SECOND OFFICER. Three, they say; but 'tis thought of every one
    A creature that did bear the shape of man
    Of these most brisk and giddy-paced times.
          'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
                     61  
    A poor esquire of Kent that loves his king.
Florence. Before the DUKE's palace
    or an ordinary man has; but I am great eater of beef, and I
    Affliction is enanmour'd of thy parts,

    I'll keep mine own despite of all the world.
    From the flowers now that, frighted, thou let'st fall
    Uncle, your Grace knows how to bear with him.
    Not knowing why.
    mortal.


  Thou say'st his sports were hind'red by thy brawls.
    But now 'tis made an H.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  Pol. I have, my lord.

  HIPPOLYTA. How chance Moonshine is gone before Thisby comes back
  Glou. All dark and comfortless! Where's my son Edmund?
    suffers under probation: A should follow, but O does.
    But, good my lord, do it so cunningly
    Whenas I sat in Pabylon-
  PROSPERO. Being once perfected how to grant suits,
    And call them meteors, prodigies, and signs,
    Me of my lawful pleasure she restrain'd,
    Weeps over them and wrings his hapless hands
    Doth he lay claim to thine inheritance?
  Alb. Gloucester, I live
    Praising thy worth, despite his cruel hand.
    Thou cunning'st pattern of excelling nature,
    figures out of your husband's brains. If they can find in their
    But for my hand, as unattempted yet,
    That, plucking to unfix an enemy,
    fanning in his face with a peacock's feather. You'll never trust
    Shall we go see the reliques of this town?

  CLAUDIO. Ay, but to die, and go we know not where;
    commodities upon our bills?  
    And with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze.
    And even here brake off and came away.
    Strike up the drums; and let the tongue of war,
  PETRUCHIO. Proceed.
    No joyful tongue gave him his welcome home;
  Cap. But saying o'er what I have said before:
  TIMON. Let me look back upon thee. O thou wall

  Come, sir, to dinner. Dromio, keep the gate.
  ANGELO. Nay, but hear me;
  PROSPERO. The hour's now come;

PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Wear out the day in peace; but, ere sunset,  
  WOLSEY. If your Grace
  Capt. Truly to speak, and with no addition,
  PORTIA. Soft!
    Now wears his crown.
    He was as rattling thunder. For his bounty,
  DESDEMONA.            How now, my dear Othello!  

    What you as from your father shall deliver,
    I care not for thee, Kate. This is no world
    In him that was of late an heretic,
                                                          Exeunt
  Hor. Have after. To what issue wail this come?
                                                     Exit TAMORA
    on the way, and told me I had unloaded all the gibbets and
  SEBASTIAN. No marrying 'mong his subjects?
    Whose roof's as low as ours! Stoop, boys; this gate
    dispatch'd!
  Claud. Can the world buy such a jewel?
    I never yet beheld that special face
    That youth is surely in their company.
  FALSTAFF. I spake with the old woman about it.
    Not without fair reward.                        Exit SERVANT

  LEWIS. Nay, ask me if I can refrain from love;  
    I scorn thee and thy fashion, peevish boy.
    Against the steep uprising of the hill?
SCENE 2.
    To make an envious mountain on my back,
    Of the world's ransom, blessed Mary's Son;
  ANNE. O wonderful, when devils tell the truth!
    Cannot be mute- or thought- for cogitation
  PRINCE. Not- to dispraise me, and call me pander, and
    And gracious be the issue!                            Exeunt
  BOYET. A woman sometimes, an you saw her in the light.
    Petruchio, I shall be your ben venuto.                Exeunt
    So soon be drawn; no did he think it meet  
    When, after that the holy rites are ended,
    For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch,
    The substance of my praise doth wrong this shadow  
    As you, my lord, or any Scot that this day lives.
    By the which marriage the line of Charles the Great
  ROSALIND. Me, uncle?
    Straight marry her. To this her mother's plot

    As I come out: this action I now go on
    Like lime-twigs set to catch my winged soul!
    Thou hast the sweetest face I ever look'd on.
  IAGO. And so do I too, lieutenant.
  BRUTUS. I would he had.

  Bearing thy heart which I will keep so chary
Alarums, excursions. Enter the BASTARD with AUSTRIA'S head
    court with news.
    he has laid a great wager on your head. Sir, this is the matter-

below
    Than twenty times the value of the sum
    My wife is slippery? If thou wilt confess-
  There's nothing situate under heaven's eye
    The peace between the French and us not values
  Fal. Nay, before God, Hal, if Percy be alive, thou get'st not my
  THERSITES. Why, his masculine whore. Now, the rotten diseases of
  SPEED. I would you were set, so your affection would cease.
    good neighbours. If a man do not erect in this age his own tomb
  LYSANDER. Keep promise, love. Look, here comes Helena.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    They fall their crests and like deceitful jades
  Which like two spirits do suggest me still,
    Did you too much disquiet. For that you must
    So fairly bound? O, that deceit should dwell
    Before thy sovereign and thy lawful king?
    They'll grind the one the other. Where's Antony?
    That Henry, sole possessor of my love,
    As if it had been sow'd. Yet still it's strange
  Pedro. Nay, 'a rubs himself with civet. Can you smell him out by

    Those legs that brought me to a part of it!
    To counsel Cassio to this parallel course,
    Th'art tir'd, then, in a word, I also am
    He were no lion, were not Romans hinds.
               Alarum. Enter an ENGLISH SOLDIER, crying
  Reserve them for my love, not for their rhyme,
    And present execution of our wills
  COSTARD. True, and I for a plantain. Thus came your argument in;
                              Enter FALSTAFF
    When I shall tread upon the tyrant's head,
  Than you shall hear the surly sullen bell
  QUICKLY. This is all, indeed, la! but I'll ne'er put my finger
  MESSENGER. Labienus-
    Besides, Antonio certified the Duke
    He's bound unto Octavia.
    In ivory coffers I have stuff'd my crowns;
    Whose nature sickens but to speak a truth.
    Great men oft die by vile bezonians:
    That's able to breathe life into a stone,
    Imagine I have said farewell already.
    slowness that I do not, for I know you lack not folly to commit

    No traveller returns- puzzles the will,
     I feel this pin prick. Would I were assur'd

    Like interrupted waters, and o'erbear
    In it be memoriz'd.
    opinion, and strange without heresy. I did converse this quondam
    hates them- that between you and the women the play may please.
    appointed for the wrestling, and they are ready to perform it.
  THIRD CITIZEN. He's not confirm'd: we may deny him yet.
    Eye well to you. Your honour calls you hence;
    Didst thou not kill this king?
    He cannot want fifty-five hundred talents.
    Was foully snatch'd.
  IAGO. O, they are our friends! But one cup; I'll drink for you.
    But I-that am not shap'd for sportive tricks,


    Receive them then, the tribute that I owe,
    encounter any such, apprehend him, an thou dost me love.
     And thou must make a dullard of the world,
    Off-capp'd to him; and, by the faith of man,
  SILENCE. Your good worship is welcome.
    The like himself. Therefore give me no counsel.
  SECOND STRANGER. Ay, too well.
The King's camp near Shrewsbury.
    one Master Bassanio, who indeed gives rare new liveries; if I
  IAGO. Do not weep, do not weep. Alas the day!
                         Enter HELENA
  FABIAN. Though our silence be drawn from us with cars, yet peace.
                                     They fight. Douglas flieth.
    therefore, once more to this Captain Dumain: you have answer'd to
    Thou art a fellow of a good respect;
                  and PRENTICES drinking to him
    As dear be to thee as thy father was.
    At seventeen years many their fortunes seek,
    in offence with my niece that I cannot pursue with any safety
  BERTRAM. O my Parolles, they have married me!
    And at my suit, sweet, pardon what is past.
     Th' affliction nor the fear.
    But from the inward motion to deliver
    The divine Desdemona.
    That shall reverberate all as loud as thine:
    That I may speak with you, O, good my lord!
  YORK. Dispatch- this knave's tongue begins to double.
  CLOTEN. Winning will put any man into courage. If I could get this
  IMOGEN. My lord, I fear,

    The former man may make him. Bring us to him,
  Nurse. Madam!
  CHARMIAN. No, madam.
    He'll tell me all his purpose. Sure, he'll come.
    than I do with her, I thank heaven.
    Warwickshire? My good Lord of Westmoreland, I cry you mercy. I
            That reason wonder may diminish,
  QUEEN MARGARET. Bear with me; I am hungry for revenge,
  TITUS. And I have horse will follow where the game
    My suit, as I do understand, you know,

    Cutting a smaller hair than may be seen,
    And common good to all, made one of them.
    let me supervise the canzonet. Here are only numbers ratified;
    For every object that the one doth catch
    To scourge th' ingratitude that despiteful Rome
    And yet, in substance and authority,
  On both sides thus is simple truth suppressed:
    When Caesar says "Do this," it is perform'd.
    And in his bosom spend my latter gasp.
  If it be not, then love doth well denote,
  OFFICER. You here shall swear upon this sword of justice
    We have convers'd and spent our hours together;
    With his next vantage.
    How say you, my lord, are you not content?
  ROSS. Would I could answer
  CRESSIDA. You shall not have it, Diomed; faith, you shall not;
  MESSENGER. They lie in view, but have not spoke as yet.
    Towards Phoebus' lodging! Such a wagoner
Enter BOLINGBROKE and NORTHUMBERLAND, forces
    and leave sack, and live cleanly, as a nobleman should do.
  FALSTAFF. Thou dost give me flattering busses.
    Plot some device of further misery
    For the Lord's tokens on you do I see.
Enter Brutus and Cassius, and a throng of Citizens.
  POLIXENES. No, madam.
  FALSTAFF. I think the devil will not have me damn'd, lest the

  CORNELIUS. With horror, madly dying, like her life;
  BRABANTIO.                How? The Duke in council?
    Anything on him; for he hath a witchcraft
    No, no, my heart will burst, an if I speak-
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. You speak him far.
  GRUMIO. Tell thou the tale. But hadst thou not cross'd me, thou
    Prizes the virtue that appears in Cassio
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, PHILOSTRATE, LORDS, and ATTENDANTS
  TRINCULO. Do, do. We steal by line and level, an't like
    not who sees Your back. Call you that backing of your friends? A
    Question your royal thoughts, make the case yours;
     Bringing the murderous caitiff to the stake;
    And my dear father. How features are abroad,
    indeed my father did something smack, something grow to, he had a
    But gather we our forces out of hand
    The mounting Bolingbroke ascends my throne,
  FIRST MURDERER. Tut, tut, my lord, we will not stand to
    Your buskin'd mistress and your warrior love,  
    And how you find her.
    I go to certify her Talbot's here.  
    To kiss the ground before young Malcolm's feet,

  BRUTUS. Good gentlemen, look fresh and merrily;
    No, prelate; such is thy audacious wickedness,
    Come, sirrah.                                         Exeunt
    Lean, rent, and beggar'd by the strumpet wind!
    Had numb'red thirteen years.
    Found out the remedy. How would you be
    If to reprove you for this suit of yours,
  PAGE. Away, you scullion! you rampallian! you fustilarian!
  SERVANT. Master, there is three carters, three shepherds, three
    Of Arthur, whom they say is kill'd to-night
    Thyself domestic officers- thine enemy.
    And cook to honest creatures. But 'tis not so;
    Leave shall you have to court her at your pleasure.
  BAPTISTA. Sir, pardon me in what I have to say.
    Good Kate; I am a gentleman.
    That ever was survey'd by English eye-
ACT III. SCENE I.
    T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
    'Twas very faintly he said 'Rise'; dismiss'd me
  

  AJAX. Troilus, thou coward Troilus, show thy head.
    Cold lips blow to their deities, take thee from me.
    in the commonwealth.
  KING. Two equal men. The Queen shall be acquainted
    This paper thus seal'd up, and I am sure
  TALBOT. Lord Regent, and redoubted Burgundy,
    And none but he, to marry with Nan Page.
    With burial amongst their ancestors.
  DUCHESS. What is the matter?
    I'll have thy head for this thy traitor's speech.
  QUEEN. Nimble mischance, that art so light of foot,
  TIMON. You gods, reward them!
    Freed and enfranchis'd- not a party to
    Is more vindicative than jealous love.
COURTEZAN. As sure, my liege, as I do see your Grace.
Messina. POMPEY'S house
    hand, and so I leave you. By this hand, Claudio shall render me a
    plague upon such backing! Give me them that will face me. Give me
    That power I have, discharge; and let them go
  DUKE SENIOR. Show me the place;
    The rite of May; and, hearing our intent,
    And tame the savage spirit of wild war,
    A prosperous gentleman; and to be King  
                    Enter MARINERS, Wet
    To after-eye him.
    Thou great, and wise, to hear Ulysses speak.
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
  HORTENSIO. From all such devils, good Lord deliver us!
    Or bring your latter hazard back again
  To Epidamnum; till my factor's death,

    Second to none, unseconded by you-
    My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding;
ACT III. Scene I.
           And aroint thee, witch, aroint thee!
    And yet be seen to bear a woman's face?
    Your Highness to assign our trial day.
    stocks all night, poor gallant knave.
    This bloody man, the care on't. I hope I dream;

    Her dotage now I do begin to pity;
    The cry of Talbot serves me for a sword;
  QUEEN MARGARET. So come to you and yours as to this prince.
     And quench'd the steeled fires.
    And you, Achilles, let these threats alone
    And him he play'd it for, he needs will be
  IMOGEN. I beseech you, sir,
    vice in him. You must in no way say he is covetous.
    According to the measure of their states.
     Never (O fault!) reveal'd myself unto him
    Could not be wedg'd in more; I am stifled
    His hopeful son's, his babe's, betrays to slander,
    Not as you serv'd the cause, but as't had been
    Thou art pinch'd for't now, Sebastian. Flesh and blood,
  GLOUCESTER. The ghostly father now hath done his shrift.
    With thy black mantle till strange love, grown bold,
  HOSTESS. Good people, bring a rescue or two. Thou wot, wot thou!
  To be disturb'd would mad or man or beast.
    Tongue far from heart- play with all virgins so:
    Did I my soul and fortunes consecrate.
    discovery, and your secrecy to the King and Queen moult no
    Now seeming sweet, convert to bitt'rest gall.          Exit.
    To speak with Timon.
    That might annoy my finger? 'Tis so strange
    Falling on Diomed.
    That he you hurt is of great fame in Cyprus  
    And most desire should meet the blow of justice;
    jointure.
    And soar with them above a common bound.
    As I have such a heart that both mine ears
    Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror;
    Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep,
     Stand in the plague of custom, and permit
  TAMORA. Have I not reason, think you, to look pale?
    And keep it safe for our remembrance;
    Carriers, Travellers, and Attendants.
    wherein villanous, but in all things? wherein worthy, but in
  Pedro. That would I know too. I warrant, one that knows him not.

    But get thee gone; I shall be there before thee.  
  Dromio, thou drone, thou snail, thou slug, thou sot!

    May it be gently heard. When we debate
  SLY. Madam wife, they say that I have dream'd
    I tender to thy hand. All thy vexations
    Is it my fault that I was Geffrey's son?
  GUIDERIUS. Why, he but sleeps.
    Even in a minute. So full of shapes is fancy,
  KING. Well, it was proclaimed damsel.

    (As upon thee, Macbeth, their speeches shine)
  Urs. You could never do him so ill-well unless you were the very
    With pennons painted in the blood of Harfleur.
    My boy a bastard! By my soul, I think
    There's difference in no persons.
    Is not the King's name twenty thousand names?
    I am combined by a sacred vow,

    distemper, and, forsooth, to search his house for his wife's
    saying thus, or to the same defect: 'Ladies,' or 'Fair ladies, I
    will drink under this tree. He hath been all this day to look
  GARDINER. It's one o'clock, boy, is't not?
    In spite of spite, alone upholds the day.
  VARRO. CLAUDIO. Did we, my lord?
    To bear the golden yoke of sovereignty,
                       Enter HELENA
    more i' th' matter.
    I will be content to be a lawful hangman. I would be glad to
    Are hired to bear their staves. Either thou, Macbeth,

  TIMON. With all my heart, gentlemen both! And how fare you?

    Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
                           [Here he ascendeth the throne. Sound]
    Leaving no heir begotten of his body-
  TALBOT. Thou never hadst renown, nor canst not lose it.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    of virgins, that would suffer her poor knight surpris'd without
  LOVELL. The reformation of our travell'd gallants,
    know how I speed; and the conclusion shall be crowned
  BAGOT. My Lord Aumerle, I know your daring tongue
  MONTJOY. They call it Agincourt.
    My cousin Westmoreland? No, my fair cousin;
  Ham. Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow, sweet lord!
        The fresh streams ran by her, and murmur'd her moans,
  HERMIA. 'Lower' hark, again.
    To England's King in lawful marriage.
  Till thus he 'gan besiege me: "Gentle maid,
    To make the fox surveyor of the fold?
                   Venetia, Venetia,
    And give't me in mine ear.
                        Enter ERPINGHAM
                                Exeunt the soldiers of BASSIANUS
  BELARIUS. Not too hot.
    The first and happiest hearers of the town,
  Prince. Why then, it is like, if there come a hot June, and this
  CLEOPATRA. Antony's dead! If thou say so, villain,  
    Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
    [To TOUCHSTONE] And you to wrangling; for thy loving voyage  
    Come current for an accusation
            You and you are heart in heart;
    Dar'st thou maintain the former words thou spak'st?
  TRANIO. And if I be, sir, is it any offence?
    To ask of whence you are. Report it.
    Come, I know thou lovest me; and at night, when you come into
                            dishes at them, and drives them out]
    I would not my unhoused free condition
    In Whitsun pastorals. Sure, this robe of mine  
    Advise him to a caution, to hold what distance

  LADY. Of either, madam.
  ESSEX. My liege, here is the strangest controversy
    pretty one; a very pretty one- sure, some scape. Though I am not
    To that I'll urge him. Therefore thou shalt vow
    I shall not fail t' approve the fair conceit
  Oph. My lord, I do not know,
    Now, infidel, I have you on the hip.
    The ceremony?
     You have now the good advantage of the night.
  AGAMEMNON. What trumpet? Look, Menelaus.
    Without the stamp of merit? Let none presume
    If either of you both love Katherina,  
    In maiden meditation, fancy-free.
    a gentleman of good conceit. I speak not this that you should
    To kings that fear their subjects' treachery?
  Pol. At 'closes in the consequence'- Ay, marry!
    He is in Rome.
  STARVELING. I believe we must leave the killing out, when all is
    months on her way.
  PORTIA. Is Caesar yet gone to the Capitol?
    Thursday. Shalt have a cap to-morrow. A merry song, come. 'A
    Besides the applause and approbation
    Were not so rich a jewel. Thou wast a soldier
  SATURNINUS. But he will not entreat his son for us.
  GLOUCESTER. Stand by, my masters; bring him near the King;
  ALONSO. If thou beest Prospero,
    But love, fair looks, and true obedience-
    These poor informal women are no more
    With brazen din blast you the city's ear;
ACT V. SCENE I.
  LORENZO. Beshrew me, but I love her heartily,

    myself. You must know of me then, Antonio, my name is Sebastian,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  CHARLES. I am heartily glad I came hither to you. If he come  
    Inform on that.
    That which I shall report will bear no credit,
  MRS. PAGE. Alas, three of Master Ford's brothers watch the
    Such a mad marriage never was before.

  SERVANT. O sir, I shall be hated to report it:

    heels. Will you sit down with me? and we two will rail against
  Queen. If it be,
    These present wars against the Ottomites.
    As you were fore-advis'd, had touch'd his spirit
    And out of you she sees herself more proper
    ribs bare. But, sirrah, make haste. Percy 's already in the
    thrice, it shall not be amiss; and as many lies as will lie in  
  MIRANDA. And mine, with my heart in't. And now farewell
    lady would not lose him for more than I'll say.
    How under my oppression I did reek,
    If you forsake the offer of their love.
  HASTINGS. To Lynn, my lord; and shipt from thence to Flanders.
    Crook-knee'd and dew-lapp'd like Thessalian bulls;
  Jul. A thousand times good night!                        Exit.
                  Re-enter FALSTAFF
    To make itself in thee fair and admir'd.
    I hear some noise within. Dear love, adieu!
    A many of our bodies shall no doubt
    bound?
Enter [Edmund the] Bastard solus, [with a letter].
  Kent. Where learn'd you this, fool?
    Then, father Salisbury, kneel we together,
  QUEEN. Gloucester, see here the tainture of thy nest;
    And if I did but stir out of my bed,
  TIMON. A beast, as thou art. The canker gnaw thy heart

    His hair uprear'd, his nostrils stretch'd with struggling;
    Last night she slept not, nor to-night she shall not;
    That I reviv'd and was an emperor.
                                                   [Exit Queen.]
    To any well-deserving friend;
    For I can guess that by thy honest aid
  PETRUCHIO. I swear I'll cuff you, if you strike again.
    Already to their wormy beds are gone,
  CORIOLANUS. May I change these garments?
  Pol. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
    Gain, be my lord, for I will worship thee.                   Exit
  LE BEAU. He cannot speak, my lord.
    Where is the number of our English dead?
    and his head borne to Angelo.
    By favours several which they did bestow.
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. Yes, without all doubt.
SCENE IV.
  Gon. No more! The text is foolish.

  FRENCH KING. Right joyous are we to behold your face,
  The mortal moon hath her eclipse endured,
  Edm. To both these sisters have I sworn my love;  
    Or is he but retir'd to make him strong?
    To changes two dukedoms for a duke's fair daughter.
    And not a man for being simply man
    What can be said against me.
  For that which longer nurseth the disease,
SCENE 2.
                     Re-enter SERVANTS severally
    If any power pities wretched tears,
    spare men, and spare me the great ones. Put me a caliver into
   The vasty fields of France? Or may we cram
    And she in mild terms begg'd my patience,
    train'd me like a peasant, obscuring and hiding from me all
  WARWICK. Your Grace hath still been fam'd for virtuous,
    I'll undertake may see away their shilling
    talk through the chink of a wall.
  IMOGEN. Richard du Champ. [Aside] If I do lie, and do
    The which, [To AGAMEMNON] most mighty, for thy place and sway,
    Cut both the villains' throats- for die you shall;
    MERCER
    That they combine not there.
    bed-hangers and these fly-bitten tapestries. Let it be ten pound,
    man, Jesu bless him!
    him, and hang'd for Pompey that is dead by him.
                    [Flourish. They go up into the Senate House]

    What is become of Bushy? Where is Green?
                          [SLY is carried out. A trumpet sounds]
    Arm, arm, my name! a puny subject strikes
    But for my brother not a man would speak;
  ROSALINE. Oft have I heard of you, my Lord Berowne,
    See whether their basest metal be not moved;
    I'll be to Caesar; if thou pleasest not,  
  MACDUFF. Is thy master stirring?
  QUEEN MARGARET. Richard!
    To give the world assurance of a man.
    Coal-black is better than another hue
    I'll find those that shall. Scurvy knave! I am none of his
    pray'd,
  POINS. Is't come to that? I had thought weariness durst not have
  1. Watch. You'll be made bring Deformed forth, I warrant you.
  DUMAIN. By heaven, the wonder in a mortal eye!
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. If the Duke be guiltless,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    And slaughtered those that were the means to help him;
    lock.
  GOTH. What, canst thou say all this and never blush?

    In spite of Pope or dignities of church,
    By one whom she esteemeth as his friend.
    he is indeed Justice.
    Make battery to our ears with the loud music,
    Whose sting is sharper than the sword's; and will not-
    Wert thou not brother to great Edward's son,
    But in the less foul profanation.
    yet? Then there's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life
    lift the moon out of her sphere, if she would continue
    They were the most needless creatures living, should we ne'er
  KING HENRY. I myself heard the King say he would not be ransom'd.
    My tongue shall hush again this storm of war
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    O, if I wake, shall I not be distraught,
    Not Afric owns a serpent I abhor
    And pray thee take this mercy to provide
  MARCIUS. Hang 'em! They say!
    lose my parson, my priest, my Sir Hugh? No; he gives me
  FIRST STRANGER. Why, this is the world's soul; and just of the same
    Let senses rule. The word is 'Pitch and Pay.'
    Whereof take you one quarter into France,
    Curses, not loud but deep, mouth-honor, breath,
  Corn. Let us withdraw; 'twill be a storm.
    Call hither to the stake my two brave bears,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  CLOTEN. If she be up, I'll speak with her; if not,
    The insolence of office, and the spurns
    I will conduct you where you shall be lodg'd;
    And only hitherward. I leave your honours.
    And cannot say you dare not. Good Camillo,
  DEMETRIUS. I'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes,
  SUFFOLK. Most Strangely.
                                                   [He descends]
    To better vantage.
    Became the next day's master, till the last
  ENOBARBUS. I shall do't.                                Exeunt
    He is our subject, Mowbray; so art thou:
    Thou shouldst attempt it. Come now, keep thine oath;

ACT III. SCENE I.
    Am bound to under-bear.
  AUTOLYCUS. I can bear my part; you must know 'tis my occupation.
    That is the best news. That the Earl of Richmond
  MARTIUS. To prove thou hast a true divining heart,
  For, in conclusion, he did beat me there.
    For few men rightly temper with the stars;
    ass. If thou wert the ass, thy dulness would torment thee; and
    carry 't; 'tis in his buttons; he will carry 't.
  BOLINGBROKE. Name it, fair cousin.
    Beside that of the Jewel House, is made Master
    That God had lent us but this only child;
  QUEEN. Whither goes Vaux so fast? What news, I prithee?
  Come, sister; I am press'd down with conceit-
  The teeming autumn big with rich increase,
  Cap. And why, my Lady Wisdom? Hold your tongue,
    Commencing in a truth? I am Thane of Cawdor.
    Hearing of your arrival in this realm,
                 Enter SERVANTS with a basket
  Ham. I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to Horatio] Dost know this
    Show not their mealy wings but to the summer;
    under an impress.
    A banish'd traitor. All my treasury
    Such things as might offend the weakest spleen
    By our remembrances of days foregone,  
  APEMANTUS. There is no leprosy but what thou speak'st.
                         CORIOLANUS stands

  MENENIUS. Let's be calm.  

               Enter TAMORA alone, to the Moor
    The King has done you wrong; but, hush, 'tis so.      Exeunt

    If thou wouldst not entomb thyself alive  
  Grant if thou wilt, thou art beloved of many,
  KING HENRY. How fares my lord? Speak, Beaufort, to thy sovereign.
Rome. The house of LEPIDUS
    nearer, honest Flaminius. Thy lord's a bountiful gentleman; but
    You would abate the strength of your displeasure.
Before PAGE'S house
    And as his father here was conqueror,
    To mark the full-fraught man and best indued
    And when we see the figure of the house,
  Lords, ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers, Attendants.
    And see the ambush of our friends be strong;
    Thou hadst, great King, a subject who
    And, as thou seest, ourselves in heavy plight.

    Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
    seem'd ever to abhor.
  EDWARD, PRINCE OF WALES afterwards KING EDWARD V
  KING HENRY. Fie, uncle Beaufort! I have heard you preach
    But we must win your Grace to go with us  
    With Margery Jourdain, the cunning witch of Eie,
    And then hurl down their indignation
    In way of marriage; therefore be advis'd.
    The fold stands empty in the drowned field,
  OLIVIA. In his bosom! In what chapter of his bosom?
    My household stuff, my field, my barn,
    Will make him burst his lead and rise from death.
                         Enter SHALLOW
    honour of a maid is her name, and no legacy is so rich as
    Till I have set a glory to this hand
    Bestow your counsels on me; she now begs
  IAGO. O villainous! I have looked upon the world for four times
  MALVOLIO. Lady, you have. Pray you peruse that letter.
    Making it light to Cassio. Cassio, I love thee,
    You shall digest the venom of your spleen,
    Each toy seems Prologue to some great amiss.
    How is't with Titus Lartius?
    That every slight and false-derived cause,
          The codpiece that will house

    Ah, what a life were this! how sweet! how lovely!
    In Cambria are we born, and gentlemen;
     To have his ear abus'd, wisdom bids fear.
     He childed as I fathered! Tom, away!
    That you have slander'd so?
    'Bove the contentious waves he kept, and oared
  OLIVIA. Hast thou forgot thyself? Is it so long?
    prepare dinner.
London. The DUKE OF YORK'S garden

    And place your hands below your husband's foot;
    The tongues of soothers! but a braver place
  TITUS. Ah, Marcus, Marcus! Brother, well I wot
  ISABELLA. Ay, just; perpetual durance, a restraint,

    Th'imperial Caesar, Caesar, should again unite
    And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught,-
    Master Page, fidelicet Master Page; and there is myself,
    He'll make his cap co-equal with the crown.'
    In the cathedral church of Westminster,  
  Take all these similes to your own command,
    Her blood is settled, and her joints are stiff;
    By the mass, I was about to say something! Where did I leave?
    Your statue spouting blood in many pipes,
    Did with his iron tongue and brazen mouth
  COSTARD. Well, I will do it, sir; fare you well.
    tears.
    So, let's see- it was told me I should be rich by the fairies.
    'Tis not for fear but anger that thy cheeks

DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Spurr'd, gall'd, and tir'd, by jauncing Bolingbroke.
    Each several article herein redress'd,
    Look here, I throw my infamy at thee.
  Ham. Who is to be buried in't?
    I fear, too many curses on their heads
    gravell'd for lack of matter, you might take occasion to kiss.

    I can add colours to the chameleon,
    manhood, if I should take from another's pocket to put into mine;
    With very easy arguments of love,
  MAMILLIUS. Not for because
    meddle or make with them, why, the more your honesty.
    For the enfreed Antenor, the fair Cressid.
    deep enough; so shall you be still Colville of the Dale.
  Edg. Take heed o' th' foul fiend; obey thy parents: keep thy word
    Only we want a little personal strength;
    My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!            Exit.
  PETRUCHIO. O Kate, content thee; prithee be not angry.
    To use my wings. Impute it not a crime
    Of nature be corrupted through affection;
Another part of the forest
    To try if thou be current gold indeed.
  GLOUCESTER. If I should be! I had rather be a pedlar.  
    Has desp'rate want made!
  SICINIUS. 'Tis he, 'tis he. O, he is grown most kind
    senseless and fit man for the constable of the watch. Therefore
    regard, as who should say 'There were wit in this head, an

    That they will waste their time upon our note,
    Cuts off the ceremonious vows of love
  BAPTISTA.  [To LUCENTIO]  But do you hear, sir? Have you married my
    Allegiance in them; their curses now

  Friar. Romeo, come forth; come forth, thou fearful man.
  MAECENAS. Let Rome be thus
    forthwith. Dismiss your attendant there; look it be done.
    him not strike the old woman.

    Upon himself.                       Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS  
    In his descent than shall my prompted sword
    Followed thy heels.
    Men must learn now with pity to dispense;
    statutes, he may stay him! Marry, not without the Prince be
  BRUTUS. Not unlike
    If so, I have derision med'cinable
    Trow you whither I am going? To Baptista Minola.
    Should fear to seize thee. Therefore be double-damn'd;

  MENECRATES. We, ignorant of ourselves,
     To make thee capable.
  CAESAR. Why have you stol'n upon us thus? You come not
    you?
    it were not sin to think that, making God so free an offer, He
    yet learned; full of noble device; of all sorts enchantingly
    As I have lov'd this proud disdainful haggard.
    swagg'rer comes not in my doors. I was before Master Tisick, the
    For dainties are all Kates, and therefore, Kate,
    And of such great authority in France
Scene II.
    Be ever known to patience. My dear'st sister!         Exeunt
    Or, like a gallant horse fall'n in first rank,
  MRS. FORD. No, certainly.  [Aside to her]  Speak louder.
  FIRST MURDERER. Remember our reward, when the deed's
    At wakes, and wassails, meetings, markets, fairs;
    Of the King's looks, hath a heart that is not
    I must offend before I be attainted;
    Do calm the fury of this mad-bred flaw.
    Large-handed robbers your grave masters are,
Enter EGLAMOUR
  LADY GREY. No, gracious lord, except I cannot do it.
    quoth 'a! An we might have a good woman born before every blazing
    For ever by your Grace, whose hand has rais'd me.

  THESEUS. It appears, by his small light of discretion, that he is
  KING JOHN. Go, Faulconbridge; now hast thou thy desire:
    And hunger will enforce them to be more eager.
    So that all hope is vain,
  AMIENS. Happy is your Grace,
    Mordake Earl of Fife and eldest son
  BOY. He says his name is Master Fer.
    With golden promises, that, were his heart
    Set Caliban and his companions free;
  Come, gaoler, bring me where the goldsmith is;
    into a fool's paradise, as they say, it were a very gross kind of
    Look you, I'll go pray.
    think he would not wish himself anywhere but where he is.
    Work without it. Truth is, that Fulvia,
  JULIET. I do; and bear the shame most patiently.
  SALISBURY. Disturb him not, let him pass peaceably.

  ORLANDO. O, but she is wise.
    Or does he walk? or is he on his horse?
      sorrow shoots
  
  POSTHUMUS. You are a great deal abus'd in too bold a persuasion,  
    If he see aught in you that makes him like,
    Still and contemplative in living art.
                  Enter SIR ANDREW
    He bravely broach'd his boiling bloody breast;
    The danger formerly by me rehears'd.
    Against Aumerle we will enforce his trial.
  HORTENSIO. 'A will make the man mad, to make a woman of him.
    That his chief followers lodge in towns about him,
  I'll to the Centaur to go seek this slave.
  KATHARINE. A beard, fair health, and honesty;
    To be of worth and worthy estimation,
     The which immediacy may well stand up
    Shall I try friends. You shall perceive how you
    What's in his heart, and that is there which looks
            Enter Gloucester, brought in by two or three.
  CAMPEIUS. So please your Highness,
    of her beauty.
  you good rest!'
    other brings thee out.    [Trumpets sound]  The King's coming; I
    Found truth in all but one; I, in twelve thousand, none.
    signieur of England.
  PAULINA. The keeper of the prison- call to him;
  Beat. I wonder that you will still be talking, Signior Benedick.
    And thou, O wall, O sweet, O lovely wall,
  EGEUS. Enough, enough, my Lord; you have enough;
    And falling from a hill,he was so bruis'd
    Displace our heads where- thank the gods!- they grow,
    Such as I can, twice o'er, I'll weep and sigh;
  King. Give me some light! Away!
Enter MARGERY JOURDAIN, the witch; the two priests, HUME and SOUTHWELL;
  POLIXENES. How! caught of me?  
    If it be made of penetrable stuff;

    And our induction full of prosperous hope.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  MARCIUS. Thanks. What's the matter, you dissentious rogues
    Against the rectorship of judgment?
    It will let in and out the enemy
    And yours, the noble sinews of our power,
    Or shall we on the helmets of our foes
    And consequence of dread-that I committed
  THIRD LORD. Tread not upon him. Masters all, be quiet;
    it upon better acquaintance, when we are married and

    I'll watch Titania when she is asleep,
    This, or else nothing, will inherit her.
  ISABELLA. So you must be the first that gives this sentence,

    It were an honest action to say
The Grecian camp. Before CALCHAS' tent
             Then if she fear, or be to blame,
    Must give us pause. There's the respect
    parts that he can shoe him himself; I am much afear'd my lady his

Enter QUINCE, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
    So that we fled: the King unto the Queen;
  PAGE. Fie, fie, Master Ford, are you not asham'd? What
    Under the shade of melancholy boughs,
    cannot look greenly, nor gasp out my cloquence, nor I have no
    And I have read that Hecuba of Troy
  What is the course and drift of your compact?
    Where thou shalt rest, that thou mayst hear of us,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    On the unsteadfast footing of a spear.
  BOYET. The tongues of mocking wenches are as keen
  MENELAUS. O, this is trim!
    Thorough my rust! And how his piety
    Happiest of all is that her gentle spirit
ADRIANA. It may be so, but I did never see it.
  PISTOL. I ken the wight; he is of substance good.
    never appear in him, but only in patient stillness while his
    Be his own carver and cut out his way,
    What, have I pinch'd you, Signior Gremio?
  BUCKINGHAM. Thy cruelty in execution
  That in the very refuse of thy deeds,
    Save in the office and affairs of love.
    Our ancient word of courage, fair Saint George,

    Well worthy the best heir o' th' world, should not
  Fal. These four came all afront and mainly thrust at me. I made me
    Good my lord, will you see the players well bestow'd? Do you
     He that helps him take all my outward worth.
  By their rank thoughts, my deeds must not be shown
  CHIRON. Faith, not me.
    the oaken garland.
    Why at our justice seem'st thou then to lour?
     Thy element's below! Where is this daughter?
  HIPPOLYTA, Queen of the Amazons, bethrothed to Theseus
  SIR TOBY. Shall I play my freedom at tray-trip, and become thy
  But when from highmost pitch with weary car,
    As we this garden! We at time of year
    disposition.
    That smooth'st it so with King and commonweal.
  LADY MACBETH. You have displaced the mirth, broke the good meeting,
    lord?
    soldier.
    And fall of many kings. But fear not yet
    Nor did he soil the fact with cowardice-  
     must we look to receive from his age, not alone the
  Par. That may be must be, love, on Thursday next.
    To part from Rome; Caesar is sad; and Lepidus,
Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS with attendents
    Pitied nor hated, to the face of peril
    desired employment, Berowne.' Sir Nathaniel, this Berowne is one
    With that dread King that took our state upon Him
    Out of our virtues; who miscarrying,
    With all true duty. On toward Calais, ho!                  Exeunt
  PORTIA. Why, know'st thou any harm's intended towards him?
      logs.
  ARVIRAGUS. In that he spake too far.  
      bless thee!
    Even from Hyperion's rising in the east
    His jest will savour but of shallow wit,
    nothing in the between but getting wenches with child, wronging
    Or in the night, imagining some fear,
    his design; let him fetch off his drum in any hand.
    Or durst not for his craven heart say thus.
     ruinous disorders follow us disquietly to our graves. Find out
    Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
    'Tis not ten years gone
  PORTIA. Clerk, draw a deed of gift.
    But since he died and poets better prove,
             Thy mantle good,

  CLOTEN. Receive it friendly; but from this time forth  
    Wedges of gold, great anchors, heaps of pearl,
    That keep'st the ports of slumber open wide
  ROSALIND. Where learned you that oath, fool?

    To bate me a full year.
    directly to say 'I love you.' Then, if you urge me farther than
    Come Pentecost as quickly as it will,
  VIOLA. It gives a very echo to the seat
    Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe?
    To make the even truth in pleasure flow.
GLOUCESTER offers to put up a bill; WINCHESTER snatches it, and tears it
    Array'd in flames, like to the prince of fiends,
    Sham'st thou not, knowing whence thou art extraught,
  CINNA,               "          "     "
  BANQUO. The earth hath bubbles as the water has,
  FABIAN. Here he is, here he is. How is't with you, sir?
  FIRST LORD. His love and wisdom,
    No, misconceived! Joan of Arc hath been
    And an adopted name of privilege-
    But once before I spoke to th' purpose- When?
    For every word you speak in his behalf
    And with thine own hands kill me in this place!

    Now death shall stop his dismal threat'ning sound,
ACT_4|SC_15
    Ere bloody hands were wash'd, with such a peace.      Exeunt
  Friar. O deadly sin! O rude unthankfulness!
  HELENA. And you shall find yourself to be well thank'd,
    Before you punish him, where he heard this,
  Hor. Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
  IACHIMO. By the gods, it is one. If I bring you no sufficient
  ARMADO. I will tell thee wonders.
  What then became of them I cannot tell;
  KING HENRY. Poor soul, God's goodness hath been great to thee.
    Others would say, 'Where? Which is Bolingbroke?'
    But we in silence hold this virtue well:
    And when she weeps, weeps every little flower;
    To witness simple virtue, Would you not swear,
    And nightly, meadow-fairies, look you sing,
  WARWICK. Henry now lives in Scotland at his case,
    But with the word the time will bring on summer,
    Importing Denmark's health, and England's too,
    But, like dumb statues or breathing stones,
COURTEZAN. Well met, well met, Master Antipholus.
    That Angelo's forsworn, is it not strange?

    were wealth enough for the purchase or merit for the gift; the
    She will not fail, for lovers break not hours
  KING RICHARD. Come to me, Tyrrel, soon at after supper,
     He'll strike, and quickly too. He's dead and rotten.
                       Enter a MESSENGER
    Longer to live most weary, and present
    came so near the life of passion as she discovers it.
  ORLANDO. Yes, just.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    APEMANTUS, a churlish philosopher
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Which wrought to his desire.
  CLARENCE. To who, my lord?
    Not that, I hope, which you receiv'd of me.
    Why you proceeded not against these feats
  MAYOR. God bless your Grace! We see it, and will say it.
  RIVER. Is it concluded he shall be Protector?  

    Ensuing danger; as by proof we see
  LADY MACBETH. Here's the smell of the blood still. All the perfumes
    Is thy news good or bad? Answer to that.
  CORIOLANUS. Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your
    Till then 'tis wisdom to conceal our meaning.
    thou could'st stammer, that thou mightst pour this conceal'd man
    To be dishonoured by my sons in Rome!
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH and RIVERS
    Even that your pity is enough to cure me.
         Holy, fair, and wise is she;
    On business to my brother Cassius.
    Or never trust to what my tongue can do
    Our revels now are ended. These our actors,

    Did come to languish; and, indeed, my lord,
    Dost disobey the wife of Jupiter;
  SICINIUS. Speak briefly, then,
  AGUECHEEK. A mellifluous voice, as I am true knight.  
  Ham. I am sorry they offend you, heartily;
    Thou stern, obdurate, flinty, rough, remorseless.
  TRANIO. And I am one that love Bianca more
    Springs out into fast gait; then stops again,
    We will for Ireland; and 'tis time, I trow.
    Keep law and form and due proportion,
    My purse, my person, my extremest means,
    will in to be revenged for this villainy.               Exit
     When Lear is mad. What wouldst thou do, old man?
    God witness with me, I have wept for thine.
    Why should I write this down that's riveted,
    And thrown into neglect the pompous court.
         I'll pledge you a mile to th' bottom.
    Do smilingly revolt, and who resists
    And let their heirs, God, if thy will be so,
    In different beds of lust, and never learn'd
    A slave whose gall coins slanders like a mint,
    Visit his countrymen, and banquet them?
  NERISSA. How like you the young German, the Duke of Saxony's
    His corporal motion govern'd by my spirit.
  Reg. Now, sweet lord,
  AUMERLE. Why then, the champions are prepar'd, and stay
  BRUTUS. Our course will seem too bloody, Caius Cassius,
  CORIOLANUS. Ay; 'tis an honester service than to meddle with thy
    Yet do not so, but since I am near slain,  
    I will no further chide you.
    You, gracious madam, to unthink your speaking

    I'll wrestle with you in my strength of love.
    A murd'rous guilt shows not itself more soon
    Wherefore's this noise?
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  ANTONIO. Lead me on.                        Exit with OFFICERS
    And cannot help the noble chevalier.  
    insultment ended on his dead body, and when my lust hath dined-
  ARMADO. that an eel is ingenious?


                                        [He sheweth him a paper]
    And out of doubt you do me now more wrong
    What say the augurers?
    superfluous to demand the time of the day.
  CLEOPATRA. By Isis, I will give thee bloody teeth
  AARON. Swear that he shall, and then I will begin.
  Whilst many nymphs that vowed chaste life to keep,
    The noble knot he made.
  GLOUCESTER. Nor none that live, I hope.
  LUCIO. I grant; as there may between the lists and the velvet.
    She ne'er had known pomp; though't be temporal,
                     88
    I would not lose the dog for twenty pound.
    him if he came.
  Lady. Come, come, you paraquito, answer me
     Met I my father with his bleeding rings,
  AGAMEMNON. No, noble Ajax; you are as strong, as valiant, as wise,
    A rising sigh he wisheth you in heaven.
                     126
  KATHERINA. Yet you are wither'd.
    A watch-case or a common 'larum-bell?  
  BAPTISTA. Padua affords this kindness, son Petruchio.
     Of my condition!
    Too heavy for a man that hopes for heaven!
    If I would say 'Agrippa, be it so,'
    honour's paid to him. He stole from Florence, taking no leave,
    deliver't?
    Whose naked natures live in all the spite
    And many worthy and chaste dames even thus,
    And she is dead, slander'd to death by villains,
  SPEED. And have you?
  JULIA. But shall I hear him speak?

    this servitude. I will no longer endure it, though yet I know no
  SPEED. Sir, I could perceive nothing at all from her; no, not so
ACT II. Scene I.
    Feast-won, fast-lost; one cloud of winter show'rs,
    But God be thanked for prevention,
  John. Only to despite them I will endeavour anything.
                            Enter Father.
      Nor shines the silver moon one half so bright
    Come thou no more for ransom, gentle herald;
    My bosom likes not, nor my brows! Mamillius,
    And never be Bassanio so for me;
    Which time will bring to light in smooth Duke Humphrey.
  CASSIUS. Messala!
  FIRST SENATOR. What's that?
  CHARMIAN. Madam, I trust, not so.
    Good Lord, how bright and goodly shines the moon!
    That I'll requite it last? No;
  PEDANT. Of Mantua.

    Confront your city's eyes, your winking gates;
    Should be 'Remember mine.'
    if I am a courtier: it shall do you no harm to learn.
ACT V. Scene I.
    As morning roses newly wash'd with dew.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Creatures of note for mercy-lacking uses.
    Not painted with the crimson spots of blood.
    I will not hence till with my talk and tears,
  ELBOW. And a half, sir.
    And future ages groan for this foul act;
    is no English treason to cut French crowns, and to-morrow the
    The loss you have is but a son being King,
    Though in and of him there be much consisting,
    I speak to subjects, and a subject speaks,
    And shining morning face, creeping like snail  
    As it is won with blood, lost be it so!
  DAUPHIN. For the Dauphin:
    Give you a reason on compulsion? If reasons were as plentiful as
    She had dispos'd with Caesar, and that your rage
    She levell'd at our purposes, and being royal,
    He might not but refuse you; but he protests he loves you
        green; SLENDER another way, and takes off a fairy in  
    Hadst thou descended from another house.
    Or any air of music touch their ears,
  MACBETH. Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that  
    Romeo that kill'd him, he is banished.
    Not palating the taste of her dishonour,
    Give dreadful note of preparation.

    Before the tag return? whose rage doth rend

    Do seek subversion of thy harmless life?
  KATHERINA. Pardon, old father, my mistaking eyes,
    had rather be a giantess and lie under Mount Pelion. Well,
    The wanton Edward and the lusty George?
    Dear Princess, were not his requests so far
  QUEEN. Oft have I heard that grief softens the mind
  GLOUCESTER. Who willed you, or whose will stands but  
  Made daily motions for our home return;
  CAMILLO,    lord of Sicilia
    When I have fought with Pembroke and his fellows,
  CAIUS. Vat is de clock, Jack?
    What, not a word? Nay, then thou lov'st it not,
    'Twere now to be most happy; for I fear
  BRUTUS. If it were so-
    Who hath a story ready for your ear.
    We'll walk afoot awhile and ease our legs.
                      Enter a MESSENGER
    Thy ignominy sleep with thee in the grave,
    I would attach you all and make you stoop
    That bloody mind, I think, they learn'd of me,
  SHALLOW. Do you like him, Sir John?
    Within your house, to make mine eye the witness
    And George, of Clarence; Warwick, as ourself,
    Come, bring me where they are.                       Exeunt.
  KING. I would I had that corporal soundness now,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Go ply thy needle; meddle not with her.
    His honour and the greatness of his name
    There is no sure foundation set on blood,
    Seeming and savour all the winter long.
  DESDEMONA. [Going.] I will not stay to offend you.  
  PAGE. I never heard such a drawling, affecting rogue.
    The ireful bastard Orleans, that drew blood
    To compass wonders but by help of devils.
  DEMETRIUS. She hath no tongue to call, nor hands to wash;
    In underprizing it, so far this shadow
    O, that a mighty man of such descent,
    She is thy enemy and I thy friend.
    I'll catch it ere it come to ground.
  CHANCELLOR. Let him come in.
    humour-letter; I will keep the haviour of reputation.
    "Here may you see the tyrant."

    And be false with them.
    any wholesome act established against the rich, and provide more
    The eating canker dwells, so eating love
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    By each particular star in heaven and
    That I cannot look through. Away, I prithee;
    So wildly?
    Who lately came from the King, commands the contrary.
    T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
    Which, in the bluster of thy wrath, must fall
  CYMBELINE. Prithee say.
         Had you been as wise as bold,
    pardonner! Je suis gentilhomme de bonne maison. Gardez ma vie, et
    Determin'd of- how I must climb her window,
    It eats the sword it fights with. I will seek
    his wickedness, by your rule, should be imposed upon his father
    I'll mend it and then play-
            Not a flower, not a flower sweet,
    For such a sight will blind a father's eye;
    As when his virtues shining upon others
  CHARMIAN. In this vile world? So, fare thee well.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Richly in both, if justice had her right.
    second, that have so mightily persuaded him from a first.  
  Nor his own vision holds what it doth catch:
    monstrous, and for the multitude to be ingrateful were to make a
    As if I had receiv'd them for the hire
    Look to the bak'd meats, good Angelica;
    Spoke at a venture. Look, here comes more news.  
    Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone?
    Full of rose-water and bestrew'd with flowers;
    Dukes, earls, lords, gentlemen-indeed, of all.
  DUKE. No? You say your husband.
    Hear nought from Rome in private. Your request?


  ACHILLES. Nay, I must hold you.
    Of human dealings. If I do prove her haggard,
  ANTONY. They do retire.
  Borne on the bier with white and bristly beard:
  Queen. Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?

  Beat. I have a good eye, uncle; I can see a church by daylight.

  CHARMIAN. Pray, then, foresee me one.
ADRIANA. This servitude makes you to keep unwed.
    But thou art all my art, and dost advance

                       Enter MENENIUS AGRIPPA
    Your brother's son shall never reign our king;
  MALVOLIO. What employment have we here?  
  VOLSCE. Hath been! Is it ended, then? Our state thinks not so; they
    And make my misery serve thy turn. So use it
    Where hateful death put on his ugliest mask

  KATHERINA. I like it well; good Grumio, fetch it me.
  SUFFOLK. Base slave, thy words are blunt, and so art thou.
    Who is it that complains unto the King
    That are within the note of expectation
    quickly make them wanton.
  CHARLES. Good morrow to your worship.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. I think no less. Dost thou not wish in heart
    Turn from their office to black funeral-
    Let it alone. Come, I'll go in with you.

    Speak, good Sicinius.


  Oph. 'Tis brief, my lord.
  HOLOFERNES. The moon was a month old when Adam was no more,
    your Grace,
    Come, let us take a muster speedily.
    Stick to your journal course. The breach of custom
  PUCELLE. Why, no, I say; distrustful recreants!
    The world will say he is not Talbot's blood  
    Which we will niggard with a little rest.
    Obey, and go with me; for thou must die.
    Is ruin'd, and the soul of every man
  QUEEN MARGARET. Enforc'd thee! Art thou King and wilt be
    salve for l'envoy, and the word 'l'envoy' for a salve?
    For fury not to be resisted. Thus defied,
    And give them leave to fly that will not stay,
  OTHELLO. That? what?
    The whilst his iron did on the anvil cool,
    Where sits deformity to mock my body;
    And neither heaven nor man grieve at the mercy.
  MOTH.    Until the goose came out of door,
    Like to a dismal clangor heard from far,
       'Let our reciprocal vows be rememb'red. You have many
    Like offices of pity. Sir, be prosperous
    But where there is true friendship there needs none.
  PAGE. He said, sir, you should procure him better assurance than
    Or groan for Joan? or spend a minute's time
  Both truth and beauty on my love depends:
    And that he is a bastard, not thy son.

  '"O then advance of yours that phraseless hand
    Thereby to have defeated you and me:

    Where th' are extended; who, like an arch, reverb'rate
    Aim'd at your Highness-no inveterate malice.
    Cover your heads, and mock not flesh and blood
  Till, gnawing with my teeth my bonds in sunder,
  FIRST CITIZEN. What is your name?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  VINCENTIO. What, you notorious villain, didst thou never see thy
    SECOND MURDERER. Faith, some certain dregs of conscience
  SERVANT. He did ask favour.
    No worse a husband than the best of men;
    and cheese to come.                                   Exeunt
    Is as the maiden's organ, shrill and sound,  
    And the true blood which peeps fairly through't,
    And not have cut him off. Some one hath set you on;
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. Well worth the seeing.
    forget to specify, when time and place shall serve, that I am an
ADRIANA. She did betray me to my own reproof.
  THIRD SERVANT. Yet do our hearts wear Timon's livery;
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
            Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH, with her hair about her  
    wronged Caius Ligarius. There is but one mind in all these men,

    devil!
    At this odd-even and dull watch o' the night,
    Perchance he is not drown'd- what think you, sailors?
  ULYSSES. You have not patience; come.
    For God's sake, cousin, stay till all come in.
    Still question'd me the story of my life
    Art thou a fedary for this act, and look'st
  HASTINGS. Go, fellow, go, return unto thy lord;
Enter the KING, QUEEN, GLOUCESTER, CARDINAL, and SUFFOLK,
    'tis no matter; honour pricks me on. Yea, but how if honour prick  
    Where all those pleasures live that art would comprehend.

  And I by this will be a gainer too,

    I thought thy disposition better temper'd.
     Cornwall.

England. Before the castle
    Beginning nor supplyment.
    Or cloy the hungry edge of appetite
    One part of Aquitaine is bound to us,
  And buy a rope's end; that will I bestow
    Till I were couching with the doctor's clerk.
    individable, or poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
       Enter RICHARD and SOMERSET to fight. SOMERSET is killed
    The which my love and some necessity
  OLIVIA. Away with him. Who hath made this havoc with them?
    And so should you.
    Swearing allegiance and the love of soul
  BARDOLPH,    "    "   "    "     "
  Whose sights till then were levelled on my face;
  Dog. Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the matter--an old
    When right with right wars who shall be most right!
    I do arrest thee of high treason here.
    sir, it shall be cover'd; for your coming in to dinner, sir, why,
  And do so love, yet when they have devised,
  On purpose laid to make the taker mad.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  Hor. I beseech you.

    Yet, gracious madam, bear it as you may:
  BANQUO. You shall be King.
  PROTEUS. Upon some book I love I'll pray for thee.
             And she must not speak
    Sure, the boy heard me. Brutus hath a suit
    You would quickly learn to know him by his voice.
  HELEN. In love, i' faith, to the very tip of the nose.
    This sensible warm motion to become

  CAMILLO. He's irremovable,
ANGELO. Here is thy fee; arrest him, officer.
  GLOUCESTER. Shall we hear from you, Catesby, ere we sleep?
                    Enter BARDOLPH
    Yet, ere thou go, but answer me one doubt:
    O, learn'd indeed were that astronomer
           Golden quoifs and stomachers,
    Is outward sorrow, though I think the King
    Sung thee asleep, his loving breast thy pillow;
    Came here in grace of our solemnity.
    courtesy! 'tis so, indeed. Yet again your fingers to your lips?
  VIOLA. Too well what love women to men may owe.
    For they shall taste our comfort.
  LEONARDO, servant to Bassanio
  Against that time (if ever that time come)
    The better to denote her to the doctor-
                                                Knocking within.
                                                   Exit HASTINGS
  ISABELLA. Let me be ignorant, and in nothing good
    Farewell, proud Rome; till Lucius come again,
  FALSTAFF. Now, Master Brook, you come to know what
    And yet I bear a burden like an ass,
    He speaks plain cannon-fire, and smoke and bounce;
  CONSTANCE. Which harm within itself so heinous is

  TITANIA.      First, rehearse your song by rote,
    How like a younker or a prodigal
    Happy were England would this virtuous prince

    Lo, whilst I waited on my tender lambs
  SERVANT. I pray you, sir, then set your knighthood and your
    have them, 'tis by the sea-side, browsing of ivy. Good luck, an't
     That stretch their duties nicely.
  DORSET. Be of good cheer; mother, how fares your Grace?
    Sir Robert Brakenbury, and Sir William Brandon.
  PROTEUS. Gone, my good lord.
    Which to the high topgallant of my joy
                        Enter Polonius.
    To tell me truly.
    But rather drows'd and hung their eyelids down,
    That we, the sons and children of this isle,
    farborough; but I would see his own person in flesh and blood.
    discourse peremptory, his tongue filed, his eye ambitious, his
    POET
    Where you did give a fair and natural light,

  WOLSEY. Madam, you wrong the King's love with these fears;
    pettiness would bow under. For our losses his exchequer is too
Troy. A street
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM

    has a knot on 't yet.
  Rom. More light and light- more dark and dark our woes!

  WARWICK. This blot that they object against your house
    It shall as level to your judgment pierce
    Is Caesar's homager. Else so thy cheek pays shame
  PANDARUS. Because she's kin to me, therefore she's not so fair as

      with him,
  ROSALIND. His very hair is of the dissembling colour.
    Christendom. If thou hadst been born blind, thou mightst as well
    action of an old woman, deliver'd me, the knave constable
  PAULINA. I am sorry, sir, I have thus far stirr'd you; but
Scene II.
    We'll along ourselves and meet them at Philippi.
    The more it grows and fawneth on her still.
    Upon my wretched women that so long
    She vaunted 'mongst her minions t' other day
  OLIVIA. O, sir, I will not be so hard-hearted; I will give out
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
          Here sound an English march. Enter, and pass over
    For Henry weeps that thou dost live so long.
  NESTOR. What says Ulysses?

    And bring along these rascal knaves with thee?
  GREMIO. O, very well; I have perus'd the note.
  ANTONY. O, whither hast thou led me, Egypt? See

  LEONTES. To bide upon't: thou art not honest; or,
  Ben. Two, two! a shirt and a smock.
    The Lady Constance in a frenzy died
  CAMILLO. Sir, my lord,
    If you will see her. Now, by my faith and honour,
                                         He runs at Iago, but Montano
ACT II. SCENE I.
    but, for the elegancy, facility, and golden cadence of poesy,
    Like to the Garter's compass, in a ring;
    This love feel I, that feel no love in this.
     My very character), I'ld turn it all
  MENENIUS. There was a time when all the body's members
  Prince. Swearest thou, ungracious boy? Henceforth ne'er look on me.
  EMILIA. She give it Cassio? No, alas, I found it,
  BUCKINGHAM. O, many
  Which fortified her visage from the sun,
    Who comes here? What news, Borachio?
    And ring these fingers with thy household worms,
    counterfeit; for he is but the counterfeit of a man who hath not
    And to conclude, reproach and beggary
  LIEUTENANT. Ay, kennel, puddle, sink, whose filth and dirt
  FIRST OFFICER. Here is more news.
    Like a good child and a true gentleman.
    To love fair Silvia, shall I be forsworn;
    And here's a prophet that I brought with me

  King. I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
    'Twould burst at this. Captain I'll be no more;
    With what else needful your good Grace shall think
    Ask nothing, give it him, it foals me straight,
  AGAMEMNON. March patiently along. Let one be sent
    And rack thee in their fancies.  
              Whose heart within his bosom is.
  SIR TOBY. Look where the youngest wren of nine comes.
     I deeply, dice dearly; and in woman out-paramour'd the Turk.
    And I am nothing slow to slack his haste.
Alarum; excursions. Enter NORFOLK and forces; to him CATESBY
    Have done, for more I hardly can endure.
    As I am now unhappy; which is more  
    And I of him will gather patience.

     Beyond all manner of so much I love you.
    And after scandal them, or if you know
    And favour of the climate. As by strange fortune
  That his attendant-so his case was like,
    myself and a sister, both born in an hour; if the heavens had
  Hast thou so crack'd and splitted my poor tongue
    Which cannot hear a lady's feeble voice,
  THIRD BANDIT. He; I know him.
     Most serpent-like, upon the very heart.
    [to Leonato and Claudio] with your two helps, will so practise on
    As Socrates' Xanthippe or a worse-
    For so they seem. Th' have left their barge and landed,
           The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,  
    lantern, and say he comes to disfigure or to present the person
    That is not blinded by her majesty?
  LAUNCE. Because thou hast not so much charity in thee as to go to
  BANQUO. How far is't call'd to Forres? What are these
    Their powers are marching unto Paris-ward.
    to the plate. Good thou, save me a piece of marchpane and, as
  THIRD MURTHERER. Almost a mile, but he does usually-  

    With such holiness can you do it?
  In one of thine, from that which thou departest,
    Thyself a queen, for me that was a queen,
    a scruple.
    John hath seiz'd Arthur; and it cannot be
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
           But winter and rough weather.
    But yet my nature could not bear it so.
  TRANIO. Mistress, we have.
    With an untitled tyrant bloody-scepter'd,
    Hath not in nature's mystery more science
    To Thee I do commend my watchful soul

  ORLANDO. I am no villain; I am the youngest son of Sir Rowland de
    now she's going to my wife, and Falstaff's boy with her. A
  MRS. PAGE. Nay, keep your way, little gallant; you were
    The royal disposition of that beast
    This bold bad man.
    And overshine the earth, as this the world.
  OTHELLO. Is't possible?
     The news is not so tart.- I'll read, and answer.
Enter Leonato, [Antonio] his Brother, Hero his Daughter,
    Comes armed through our watch, so like the King
    As good to die and go, as die and stay.              [Leaps down]
Before OLIVIA'S house
    Through th' ashes of my chance. Wert thou a man,
    That chase thee from thy country, and expose

  King. Break not your sleeps for that. You must not think

  PETER, friar
    A time before we came unto this cell?

    To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once.
    monster, or my standard.
                     30
  That in thy face sweet love should ever dwell,
  CHARMIAN. Three in Egypt
    or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleas'd  
    What peer hath been suborn'd to grate on you
    That doth belong unto the house of York,
  For servants must their masters' minds fulfil.
    And make my seated heart knock at my ribs,
    o'ernight and send her home again without a husband.
  FATHER. Was ever father so bemoan'd his son?
  DESDEMONA. Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world?
  HELENA. And Hippolyta.
    And all my powers do their bestowing lose,

    Show'd mastership in floating; fortune's blows,
    which, as I say, to vex her I will execute in the clothes that
    I be misconst'red in the place I go to
                                               Exit an attendant
    Upon her skinny lips. You should be women,
    Return with welcome home from banishment.

                                                   Exeunt Lords.
    As seek to soften that- than which what's harder?-
                             Brutus and Lucilius converse apart.

  QUEEN MARGARET. I told your Majesty as much before.
    Four rogues in buckram let drive at me.
    To any other trust but that I am mad,
ADRIANA. Ay; and let none enter, lest I break your pate.
    Wonder to wait on treason and on murder;
    To bring him here alone. Although perhaps
  CORIN. That young swain that you saw here but erewhile,
    By drunken prophecies, libels, and dreams,
    Rise from the ground like feathered Mercury,  
    gold.'
    Were, in his time, thought false; and Sinon's weeping
    The rest I'd give to be to you translated.
    Never to rise again. Thy mother's poison'd.
  Claud. Mary, beshrew my hand


  HELENA. Good madam, pardon me.
    She that, being anger'd, her revenge being nigh,
    Thrice-noble Titus, spare my first-born son.
  Hor. So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
    Who went with him to search Bassanio's ship.
    And here was left by th'sailors. Thou, my slave,
    and accordingly valiant.

  King. We will try it.
    If you desire to know the certainty

    And here, to do you service, am become
             Come o'er the bourn, Bessy, to me.
  MARIA. They that add, moreover, he's drunk nightly in your company.
    Except she bend her humour, shall be assur'd
                   and his men in tawny coats
  Kind is my love to-day, to-morrow kind,
    Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
  I do digest the poison of thy flesh,
                            Enter a Lord.
  FLUELLEN. It is Captain Macmorris, is it not?
  Cap. Things have fall'n out, sir, so unluckily
    What an alteration of honour
    Nod to him, elves, and do him courtesies.
    He shall not carry him; I'll be ta'en too,
    To be i' th' field and ask 'What news?' of me!
  AARON. Tut, Lucius, this was but a deed of charity
    'Be serviceable to my son' quoth he,  
                      Re-enter Lucius
    Will you give horns, chaste lady? Do not so.
    An humble heart.                                     Kneels.
  CORIOLANUS. Kindly, sir, I pray let me ha't. I have wounds to show
  BEROWNE. My eyes are then no eyes, nor I Berowne.
    Out of the great respect they bear to beauty,
    And follow to thine answer.
    quoth he. 'You do him the more wrong,' quoth I; "twas I did the
                      Enter a fourth Gentleman.
    I am thy king, and thou a false-heart traitor.
    I'll follow those that even now fled hence,
    Away, I say. Thou shalt know more hereafter.
  Nurse. An 'a speak anything against me, I'll take him down, an 'a
    He calls us rebels, traitors, aid will scourge
  HOST. Where be my horses? Speak well of them, varletto.
    Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
                                                [MIRANDA sleeps]
    Here come I from our princely general
                     ALEXAS, with others
    nation till now; I never felt it till now. Two thousand ducats in
    Therefore my age is as a lusty winter,
    And, for my love, I pray you wrong me not.
    And that he does I weep. Myself am Naples,
  DUKE. This is no witness for Lord Angelo.  
  GLOUCESTER. These eyes could not endure that beauty's
    thanks for it. No abuse, Hal; none, Ned, none; no, faith, boys,
Sicilia. A chapel in PAULINA's house
  ACHILLES. Your last service was suff'rance; 'twas not voluntary. No
    face.
    press me none but good householders, yeomen's sons; inquire me
    Only it spoils the pleasure of the time.
  Glou. Is it a beggarman?
  SHALLOW. Ha, ha, ha! You can do it, sir; you can do it. I commend
  SECOND LORD. [Aside] If it be a sin to make a true election, she is
    You do appear before them; if they shall chance,
    I'll make a corse of him that disobeys!
    any complaint whatsoever- no, not for dwelling where you do; if I
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. I understand you not; my griefs are double.
    Read here, young Arthur.                        [Showing a paper]
                         GRUMIO, and train



  TROILUS. What offends you, lady?
    I know him well. You are very welcome, sir.
    Is the next way to draw new mischief on.
    Being capable of all ill! I pitied thee,
    But if I could, by Him that gave me life,
    Impose some service on me for thy love.
    encounter you; you have ended my business, and I will merrily
    And tire the hearer with a book of words.
  BUCKINGHAM. Upon record, my gracious lord.
    home unkept; for call you that keeping for a gentleman of my
    That, in regard King Henry gives consent,
    5. MAYOR OF LONDON, bearing the mace. Then GARTER, in
    helper; if you will take it on you to assist him, it shall redeem
    His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
  FALSTAFF. I pray thee now, deliver them like a man of this world.
    The weeds which his broad-spreading leaves did shelter,  
  Sometime diverted their poor balls are tied
  Cor. Unhappy that I am, I cannot heave

    To be asham'd to be my father's child!
    Whether for east or west. The dearth is great;
  PROTEUS. My lord, I cannot be so soon provided;
  DUCHESS. My shame will not be shifted with my sheet.  
  SECOND LORD. It well may serve
    Lo, in this right hand, whose protection
    Be by some certain king purg'd and depos'd.
  All these old witnesses-I cannot err-
    And then pursue me as you draw your bow.
    And craves your company for speedy counsel.  
  Ham. Ay, so, God b' wi' ye!
  SPEED. Sir Proteus, save you! Saw you my master?
    it shall hang like a meteor o'er the cuckold's horns. Master
    And in the sentence my own life destroy'd.  
    I will have none so near else. Learn this, brother,
    can tell you how things go better than I can. You may ask
    That stout Pendragon in his litter sick
    Becomes his captain's captain; and ambition,
            Will the faithful offer take
    God keep your worship! I wish your worship well. God restore you
  LEWIS. I do, my lord, and in her eye I find
    Good boy, wink at me, and say thou saw'st me not. Fare thee well.
    I left him well.  
  MALVOLIO. Fool, there was never man so notoriously abus'd;

  VOLUMNIA, mother to Coriolanus
  BERTRAM. What would you have?
                                   Exeunt all but TROILUS and ULYSSES
    So from thy soul's love didst thou love her brothers,
           Enter a GARDENER and two SERVANTS
  SECOND LORD. But what linsey-woolsey has thou to speak to us again?
  GREMIO. I am agreed; and would I had given him the best horse in
    And instances of infinite of love,
  VENTIDIUS,             "    "   "
    To these great fellows. Sound and be hang'd, sound out!
  If thou couldst answer 'This fair child of mine
    That he is lov'd of me; I follow him not
    Under Cominius.
SCENE III.
    you, and there is gallant and most prave passages. Marry, th'
  Lear. Regan, I think you are; I know what reason
    This wide-chopp'd rascal-would thou mightst lie drowning
  MAMILLIUS. No, my lord, I'll fight.
    But never saw before; of whom I have
    As if a god in hate of mankind had
    Which if they have, as I will leave 'em them,  
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    'Go tell false Edward, the supposed king,
    I have look'd on thousands who have sped the better
    Remembers me of all his gracious parts,
    Kneel in the streets and beg for grace in vain.-
    That vulgars give bold'st titles; ay, and privy  
  PHRYNIA AND TIMANDRA. Well, more gold. What then?
    To make great haste. All fast? What means this? Ho!
  SECOND SERVANT. So did I, I'll be sworn. He is simply the rarest
    He leaves his pledges dearer than his life.  
    By heavens, the Duke shall know how slack you have
    having.

  EMILIA. Out, and alas! That was my lady's voice.
  SANDYS. As easy as a down bed would afford it.
    Excitements to the field or speech for truce,
    They hither march amain, under conduct
    Such as it is, being tender, raw, and young;

    And all my friends, which thou must make thy friends,
    industry, why, the power and corrigible authority of this lies in
    Some galled goose of Winchester would hiss.
  CARDINAL. It serves you well, my lord, to say so much.
  OTHELLO.                             He, woman;
    Wilt thou? wilt thou? thou bastardly rogue! Murder, murder! Ah,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Had witchcraft in't. He grew unto his seat,
  Ham. No, by this bad.  
    We come within our awful banks again,
    For your conversion. Now your traveller,
  EARL OF NORTHUMBERLAND
  MALCOLM. Let us seek out some desolate shade and there
  JULIA. And yet, I would I had o'erlook'd the letter.
           KING, etc., to eat, they depart
  QUINCE. Speak, Pyramus. Thisby, stand forth.
    Her presence would have interrupted much.
    With his new bride and England's dear-bought queen,
    I say thou liest, Camillo, and I hate thee;
    Although she lave them hourly in the flood.
    Wherefore a guard of chosen shot I had
  Corn. Lest it see more, prevent it. Out, vile jelly!
    Sees and knows more, much more, than he unfolds.  

    young man here to school. Look where his master comes;
    When as the one is wounded with the bait,
    In being Coriolanus.
    Where he shall answer by a lawful form,
  PORTIA. Brutus is wise, and, were he not in health,
  Alb. Trust to thy single virtue; for thy soldiers,
    For he's a spirit of persuasion, only

    That is deceivable. But here the lady comes.
    Must be thy subject; who, in spite, put stuff
    an intolerable fright to be detected with a jealous rotten
  CAESAR. The power of Caesar, and
    and to the purpose, like an honest man and a soldier; and now is
    and stuff me out with straw. I beseech you, good Sir John, let me
  'But ah, who ever shunned by precedent
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    with me to my trial; wherein if I be foil'd there is but one
    Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
    Whence are you, sir? What may I call your name?
    Then speak again-not all thy former tale,
    More than mistrust, that shows him worthy death.
  AENEAS. In all swift haste.
  LUCIUS' SERVANT. Flaminius! Sir, a word. Pray, is my lord ready to
  Mer. Good Peter, to hide her face; for her fan's the fairer face of  
    Shipwreck'd upon a kingdom, where no pity,
    A braving war.
    News, news from heaven! Marcus, the post is come.
    Of habits evil, is angel yet in this,
    A mark so bloody on the business; but
  SLENDER. I came yonder at Eton to marry Mistress Anne
    For certain drops of salt, your city Rome-
    The bottom of your purpose.
  SECOND LORD. I perceive, by this demand, you are not altogether  
  IAGO.                         Is't come to this?
    I will upon all hazards well believe
    We'll borrow place of him. [To ANGELO] Sir, by your leave.

    Mistress Mall's picture? Why dost thou not go to church in a

    Without the King's will or the state's allowance,
    I saw the Duchess of Milan's gown that they praise so.
    Would long ere this have met us on the way.
  SECOND LORD. Every man here's so. What would he have borrowed of
  ROSS. Will you to Scone?
    Only my wars with him. He is a lion

    Into the vale of years- yet that's not much-
    To th' worst of discontent.                             Exit
  COUNTESS. This young gentlewoman had a father- O, that 'had,' how
    Which I do well, for I am sure the Emperor
    And it in you more dreadful would have seem'd
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    shall tender itself to thee. My revenge is now at Milford, would
  And every fair with his fair doth rehearse,
    drunken rogue.  

    I pray you, let us satisfy our eyes

    I'll have a starling shall be taught to speak
    If you had been the wife of Hercules,
    cup draws him on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.
     As my great patron thought on in my prayers-
  John. I could not send it- here it is again-  
  Ham. What call you the carriages?
    LYMOGES, Duke of Austria
  STAFFORD. Ay, sir.
  Good Doctor Pinch, you are a conjurer:
    Your differences shall all rest under gage
  FLAVIUS. Please you, gentlemen,
    Upon thy doings. Thousand escapes of wit
    Serves for the matter that is then born in't.
    I have stood by, my lord, and I have heard
    but minister such assistance as I shall give you direction.
    Thou wouldst not have mourn'd so much for me.
  VALENTINE. O, flatter me; for love delights in praises!
    And dogged York, that reaches at the moon,
     The lion and the belly-pinched wolf
    you had appointed?  
    were a malice that, giving itself the lie, would pluck reproof
  SECOND LORD. With more than common thanks I will receive it.
    Yet here they shall not lie for catching cold.
  ACHILLES. What mean these fellows? Know they not Achilles?  
  THESEUS. Well mous'd, Lion.
  Lear. Let the great gods,
    And now, instead of bullets wrapp'd in fire,
    Hark! I am call'd; my little spirit, see,
    As rav'nous fishes do a vessel follow
  YORK. Then leave me not, my lords; be resolute:
  PETRUCHIO. A whoreson, beetle-headed, flap-ear'd knave!
    And but attended by a simple guard,
    court.
    for untrussing. Farewell, good friar; I prithee pray for me. The
    mouth, set upon Aguecheek notable report of valour, and drive the

  FIRST MURDERER. Run to my Lord of Suffolk; let him know
    But, though slow, deadly?
    Let it be lawful that law bar no wrong;
    He makes sweet music with th' enamell'd stones,
    For which we lose our heads to gild his horns.
    Need not be dreaded.
                   Enter NUNTIUS AEMILIUS
    What wound did ever heal but by degrees?
                        CLOWN sings
    paper-fac'd villain.
  FIRST LORD. I'll attend your lordship.
    persons to make modern and familiar things supernatural and
    Lascivious Goth, and all the bitterest terms
    to tie their friendship together will be the very strangler of
  Edg. From the dread summit of this chalky bourn.
     My mourning and important tears hath pitied.
    and the condition of this country stands, I could heartily wish
    And now I have the boy, I will undo

    That every braggart shall be found an ass.
    Before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers
  Once did I get him bound and sent him home,
  ORLANDO. Then love me, Rosalind.

  FLUELLEN. Certainly, Aunchient, it is not a thing to rejoice at;
    I fear

    O'er whom I give thee pow'r, here to this place.
  JULIA.  [Aside]  'Tis true, such pearls as put out ladies' eyes;
  ALL. The weird sisters, hand in hand,
    No less beg than a kingdom. If he please
    That's the plain truth. Your painted gloss discovers,
                            Enter Polonius.
Enter FALSTAFF and MISTRESS FORD
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  Kent. All the power of his wits have given way to his impatience.
    If you first sinn'd with us, and that with us
  I see descriptions of the fairest wights,
    Have I done since I went.
  PROTEUS. We'll both attend upon your ladyship.
  FALSTAFF. Why, sir, did I say you were an honest man? Setting my
    do more for an almond than he for a commodious drab. Lechery,
    That pierc'd the fearful hollow of thine ear.
    name, apprehend him: he's a friend of the Duke Alencon's.
    A fox to be the shepherd of thy lambs.
SCENE 7.
    At her life's rate.
    As pledges of my fealty and love.
  TRANIO. What is he, Biondello?
  ANNE. Nay, good troth.
    If thou be found by me; thou art but dead.
    And keep their teeth clean. So, here comes a brace.

    My brother Gloucester, plain well-meaning soul-
    And though man's face be fearful to their eyes,
    Shows itself pure. He weeps for what is done.
  Beat. You dare easier be friends with me than fight with mine
  GLOUCESTER. Pardon me, gracious lord;
    Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
    If thou art Dun, we'll draw thee from the mire
    To spy into abuses, and oft my jealousy
    should be worthy, is the opinion that fire cannot melt out of me.
                                                  [A march afar]  
  SECOND KEEPER. No, never such an oath; nor will not now.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Thy life hath it dishonour'd.
    When time is ripe, which will be suddenly,
     So speedily can venge! But O poor Gloucester!
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY; JAQUES behind
The Grecian camp
  TALBOT. Ne'er trust me then; for when a world of men
    Achilles shall have word of this intent;
  CLOTEN. Nay, come, let's go together.
    How many then should cover that stand bare!
    As mine is to him?
                        Re-enter HASTINGS  
    The robb'd that smiles steals something from the thief;
    If not, when you have stomachs.
    Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company,
  FALSTAFF. He's no swagg'rer, hostess; a tame cheater, i' faith; you
    Which you say adds to nature, is an art
    And I, who at his hands receiv'd my life,
    above, his complexion is higher than his; he having colour
  Ham. Not a whit, we defy augury; there's a special providence in
    I will feed fat the ancient grudge I bear him.
    Take thou thy Silvia, for thou hast deserv'd her.

    pluck'd this glove from his helm. If any man challenge this, he
    Not with vain thanks, but with acceptance bounteous,
    Take pity of your town and of your people
Enter VIOLA and MALVOLIO at several doors
    Far from his succour, from the King, from all
     My father hath set guard to take my brother;
  PAGE. 'A calls me e'en now, my lord, through a red lattice, and I
    But one to dance with. By heaven, I'll steal away.
    And I will kill thee if thou dost deny
    Are levying powers; we must straight make head;
  BELARIUS. What's your name?

    body
  SHYLOCK. Is that the law?
    And let him be no kinsman to my liege,
  KING JOHN. Thus have I yielded up into your hand
    If not, to hide what I have said to thee,
    If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
    pierc'd which is the one?

    I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
    While it doth study to have what it would,
    Dry up your tears and stick your rosemary
    napkins tack'd together and thrown over the shoulders like a
    have been fubb'd off, and fubb'd off, and fubb'd off, from this
    And won her soul; and she, sweet lady, dotes,
  TROILUS. Cressid, I love thee in so strain'd a purity
        Help us to sigh and groan
    benefit; redeem your brother from the angry law; do no stain to
  FALSTAFF. Away, varlets! Draw, Bardolph. Cut me off the villian's
  Other. Will you ha' the truth an't? If this had not been a
  Gent. The Marshal of France, Monsieur La Far.
  MONTANO. I am glad on't; 'tis a worthy governor.
  MENENIUS. Why, masters, my good friends, mine honest neighbours,
  SECOND MURDERER. 'Tis no matter; let it go; there's few or
  WARWICK. My Lord of York, I promise you, the King
    Till I have caught her once more in mine arms.
  GOBBO. Lord, how art thou chang'd! How dost thou and thy master
    Please it your Majesty, I have done already.
    That give you cause to prove my saying true.
    Accommodated by the place, more charming
  MONTANO. I she well shipp'd?  
    Which runs himself, and catches for his master.
    Make good this ostentation, and you shall
    Except some petty towns of no import.
    These hands shall tear her. If they wrong her honour,
    Turn'd on themselves, like dull and heavy lead.
    To part the glories of this happy day.              Exeunt.
    You wait on nature's mischief! Come, thick night,
    As you threw caps up will he tumble down,
  KING HENRY. What think you, Captain Fluellen, is it fit this

    Tongue-tied ambition, not replying, yielded
    Thy school-days frightful, desp'rate, wild, and furious;
    And therefore is Love said to be a child,
    Until my lord's return; for mine own part,

                     139
  ALICE. N'avez-vous pas deja oublie ce que je vous ai enseigne?
    brother's purpose herein, and have by underhand means laboured to
  MOTH. How many is one thrice told?
  CLOWN. If it be ne'er so false, a true gentleman may swear it in
    This deed will be well welcome to Lorenzo.
    Of good and bad, that makes and unfolds error,
    Under the which he shall not choose but fall;

    And he that slew them fouler than he is.
  Like him that travels I return again,
    When I said banish him, I said 'twas pity.
    Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep
    Inflam'd with Venus. Never did young man fancy
  GLOUCESTER. Lieutenant, is it you whose voice I hear?
    So heavy as thou shalt not shake them off,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY

    would wear if alive- I will strike it out soundly.
                         takes his state
    Bacare! you are marvellous forward.

    Since I am crept in favour with myself,
     mowing, who since possesses chambermaids and waiting women. So,
    Cannot outfly our apprehensions.  
  PROTEUS..I hope thou wilt.  [To LAUNCE]  How now, you whoreson
    I dare not call them fools; but this I think,
    Pattern'd by that the poet here describes,
    And am right sorry that I must report ye

  FALSTAFF. You shall hear. As good luck would have it, comes
  CASSIUS. Titinius, if thou lovest me,
    That 'gainst the stream of virtue they may strive
    To make theirs ours, and ours none but our own;
               Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace
    To closeness and the bettering of my mind
  HELENA. That it will please you
  KING RICHARD. Now, by my George, my garter, and my
  ENOBARBUS. Not till you have slept. I fear me you'll be in till  
    Until I send for thee.
  Rom. I would I were thy bird.
    you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free
    Unless a pardon ere I rise or speak.  
    And damnable ingrateful. Nor was't much
    For shame! In duty bend thy knee to me,
  BEROWNE. Ay, as some days; but then no sun must shine.
                            SCENE.--Verona; Mantua.
    For I am sick and capable of fears,
    But like a cloistress she will veiled walk,
    dagger of lath and drive all thy subjects afore thee like a flock
  out countries in her.
    And at this time most easy 'tis to do't,
    Come, go with us, speak fair; you may salve so,
  WOLSEY. [Aside to the SECRETARY]  A word with you.
    Great Hector was as good a man as he.
    Than lady, ladies, woman. From every one
  EXETER. We mourn in black; why mourn we not in blood?
    As motion and long-during action tires

     in part I understand them, are to blame.
    The imperial seat, to virtue consecrate,  
     Will you yet hold? How came my man i' th' stocks?
  FALSTAFF. You may; but if he had been a man's tailor, he'd ha'
                                      Exeunt MRS. PAGE and ROBIN
     Necessity's sharp pinch! Return with her?
  Guil. Prison, my lord?  
    Serving alike in sorrow. Leak'd is our bark;

    When I shall see this gentleman, thy speeches
  Poins. Farewell, my lord.                                Exit.
    Than I to your Highness; who, being born your vassal,
    Together with his mangled Myrmidons,
  Ere long espied a fickle maid full pale,
  The clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell-
    To be the lord on't. No more yet of this;
  OLIVIA. O, I have read it; it is heresy. Have you no more to say?
    Plight me the fun assurance of your faith,
    And when they hear me say 'It shall be so

  Rom. It is my soul that calls upon my name.
  Corn. I now perceive it was not altogether your brother's evil
  CLEOPATRA. Pardon, pardon!
    or pageant, or antic, or firework. Now, understanding that the
    And observation strange, my meaner ministers
    I would prevail, if prayers might prevail  
  PROSPERO.  [Aside]  Fair encounter

WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    At a few drops of women's rheum, which are  
    old cuckold with horns on his head, and say 'Get you to heaven,
    letter to Mistress Page; and thou this to Mistress Ford. We
  PETRUCHIO. 'Tis burnt; and so is all the meat.
  Bardolph.
                           Enter Roderigo.
  Was carried towards Corinth, as we thought.
    By'r Lady, he is a good musician.
    Receiveth as the sea, nought enters there,
    My mother told me just how he would woo,
    Of yonder knight?
    Breathless and bleeding on the ground. Art thou alive,
    And these fresh nymphs encounter every one
  YORK. If thou do pardon whosoever pray,
  QUEEN. My legs can keep no measure in delight,
  VIOLA. Pray you, sir, do you know of this matter?
    Of whence I am, nor that I am more better
  Glou. For him I thank your Grace.
  Pol. I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill'd i' th' Capitol; Brutus
  FORD. A buck-basket!
     Within a fortnight?

    Thou mean'st to have him grant thee.
     Stands on me to defend, not to debate.                Exit.
    Pro. For us, and for our tragedy,
  THIRD SERVANT. Please you, my lord, that honourable gentleman, Lord
  NATHANIEL. Truly, Master Holofernes, the epithets are sweetly
    Pioners and all, had tasted her sweet body,
     If this man come to good.
    Which to reduce into our former favout
  SIR TOBY. Taste your legs, sir; put them to motion.
    Too far i' th' land; 'tis like to be loud weather;
    How far brought you high Hereford on his way?

  MENENIUS. Ha! Marcius coming home?
    Did lose his luster. I did hear him groan.

  Leon. How many gentlemen have you lost in this action?
    Which, but their children's end, naught could remove,
  LUCETTA. Fire that's closest kept burns most of all.
               Sing in our sweet lullaby.  
  CLEOPATRA. Charmian!
  FIRST LORD. Here comes Boyet.
    I knew her by this jewel on her sleeve.
    Than when thou met'st me last where now we meet:
    To still my beating mind.
    of Wales?
    Shall, by the power we hold, be our good deed,
                Re-enter FABIAN, with MALVOLIO
    In simple and pure soul I come to you.
    the park; she is allow'd for the day-woman. Fare you well.
Enter YORK, and his army of Irish, with drum and colours
    Into a manly stride; and speak of frays
    Their minds may change. Besides, it were a mock
    possessed by my master Don John, saw afar off in the orchard this

    uncle.
                     Enter young Siward.
    though we have there a substitute of most allowed sufficiency,
     Spoke with how manifold and strong a bond
    Be patient; we must bring you to our captain.
    And sure he is an honorable man.
  DUNCAN. Dismay'd not this  
    Myself, my servant, and, I fear me, you.
    So fled his enemies my warlike father.
                  Enter ANTONY and ENOBARBUS
    A local habitation and a name.
    Off goes his bonnet to an oyster-wench;
  CLEOPATRA. If it be love indeed, tell me how much.
    one, it is worse shame to beg than to be on the worst side, were
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  Cor. Will't please your Highness walk?
    Whose unavoided eye is murderous.
  CLOWN. You should have said, sir, 'Before a knave th'art a knave';
  ALCIBIADES. Sir, you have sav'd my longing, and I feed
  Safe at the Centaur, and the heedful slave
Milan. The DUKE'S palace
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  ANTONY. If that thy father live, let him repent
    It is too little, helping him to all;
    and a half, that it would have done a man's heart good to see.
    contempt. If you will see it, follow me.  
  CORIOLANUS. Menenius ever, ever.
    Stockfish, a fruiterer, behind Gray's Inn. Jesu, Jesu, the mad
    Murd'rous to th' senses? That confirms it home.
    Whose inward pinches therefore are most strong-
  QUICKLY. Ay, forsooth, I'll fetch it you.  [Aside]  I am glad
    As traitors do.
                                         Exeunt all but RICHMOND
  SILVIA. From whom?
  MIRANDA. O dear father,
    No, truly, Ursula, she is too disdainful.


    Such fiery numbers as the prompting eyes
          frantic gesture, attended by GONZALO; SEBASTIAN
    If you submit you to the people's voices,
     Were very pregnant and potential spurs
  THURIO. Since his exile she hath despis'd me most,
    They are harsh and heavy to me.                    [Music ceases]
    And public reasons shall be rendered
    shrinks before his treading. He is able to pierce a corslet with
                         [They lay hands on YORK, who struggles]
    I tore it from the traitor's bosom, King;
    A wretched ragged man, o'ergrown with hair,
    Neglect me, lose me; only give me leave,
  IAGO. That's fouler.
  KING HENRY. Not yet, my cousin; we would be resolv'd,
    Thou refts me of my lands. Euriphile,
    As they have given these hairs their liberty!'
    Jane Smile; and I remember the kissing of her batler, and the
  SHEPHERD. But, my daughter,
    If you deny them, all the land will rue it.
  BIANCA. The more fool you for laying on my duty.
    Do seem to be of ours?

    courtier's beard; he sent me word, if I said his beard was not
    Set deadly enmity between two friends;  
  King. Why, now You speak
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Good night to your redress! Is the Duke gone?
  CAMILLO. Why, be so still; here's nobody will steal that from thee.
    mountain of affection th' one with th' other. I would fain have  
  MENENIUS. Well, what then?
  Pol. [to the King] O, ho! do you mark that?
  HOST. He will clapper-claw thee tightly, bully.
SCENE VI.
    hearts of gold, all the titles of good fellowship come to you!
  ISABELLA. Ignominy in ransom and free pardon
     Began to crack. Twice then the trumpets sounded,
    O'ercharging your free purses with large fines;
    As Jove himself does, Jove would never be quiet,

  CHANCELLOR. Thus far,
    Wish him ten fathom deep: this Duke as much
    O, let me stay, befall what may befall!
    You may then spare that time.
    As she in beauty, education, blood,
  YORK. Show me thy humble heart, and not thy knee,  
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    There's not a hollow cave or lurking-place,
    That I have room with Rome to curse awhile!
    I mean that my heart unto yours is knit,
    For now the devil, that told me I did well,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    A wife of such wood were felicity.
    Chaos is come again.
    Such goodness of your justice that our soul
  Ham. Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
    To the strict deputy; bid herself assay him.
    And after this let Caesar seat him sure;
                     Enter [Oswald the] Steward.
     Thou rascal beadle, hold thy bloody hand!
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. No; bear it with you, lest I come not time enough.
  PAINTER. Look, moe!
    To think that you have aught but Talbot's shadow
    Will he endure your sight as yet, I fear;
    And state of bodies would bewray what life
    And if he stand on hostage for his safety,
  TAMORA. We are beholding to you, good Andronicus.
    Galling the gleaned land with hot assays,
    Clap on more sails; pursue; up with your fights;
    brow.


                     143
    It it rain'd down fortune show'ring on your head,
      in the Masque  
    Commonly are- the want of which vain dew
    My better service, when my turpitude
     Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws
Enter Lucio and two other GENTLEMEN
    Yet let us watch the haughty cardinal;
    This heavy-headed revel east and west
    This is Pisanio's deed, and Cloten. O!
    We see th' appearing buds; which to prove fruit
    I take it your own business calls on you,
    Fear not, Cesario, take thy fortunes up;  
  Ham. He was a man, take him for all in all.
    Make this his latest farewell to their souls.
  MARCIUS. How lies their battle? Know you on which side
  CADE. To equal him, I will make myself a knight presently.
  SATURNINUS. Titus Andronicus, for thy favours done
    Like twenty torches join'd, and yet his hand
    Of double ducats, stol'n from me by my daughter!
    His own life hung upon the staff he threw-  
                 Shall break the locks
    So many horrid ghosts. O, now, who will behold
    If you think fit, or that it may be done,
    it by counsel.
    And it is nothing, nothing in the world;
    And almost broke my heart with extreme laughter.
    Do get their children; but in this case of wooing
    Which he was lord of; or whether nature,
    We'll be before our welcome.
    Speak, shall I call her in? Believe my words,
  Jul. Ay, madam, from the reach of these my hands.
    Invited her to supper. She replied
    close by the Thames side.  
    belong'd to't, and yet was denied.

    That men of your nobility and power
    Gave hope thou wast in being, have preserv'd
    Rather than they shall pound us up; our gates,
    You shall have time to wrangle in when you have nothing else to
  HOSTESS. No, nor I neither; I'll be at your elbow.
    We might have met them dareful, beard to beard,
  IMOGEN. I'll tell you, sir, in private, if you please
    And lay them gently on thy tender side.
    what, Hal- if I tell thee a lie, spit in my face, call me horse.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Why, first for flouting me; and then wherefore,
  COSTARD. Sir, I confess the wench.
    To make them instruments of fear and warning  

    This Lodovico is a proper man.
  TROILUS. Let Paris bleed: 'tis but a scar to scorn;
    Because, my lord, you know my mother lives.
    To your good prayer will scarcely say amen.
    But I am shepherd to another man,  
    a fosset-seller, and then rejourn the controversy of threepence
  SURVEYOR. Being at Greenwich,

    Wart; you see what a ragged appearance it is. 'A shall charge you
    In the election of a sir so rare,
  And ill it doth beseem your holiness
     Touches us not with pity. O, is this he?
    I mean, my lords, those powers that the Queen
  Queen. I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me.          Drinks.
    If one good deed in all my life I did,
    Smil'd at their lack of skill, but found their courage
  Oph. I was the more deceived.
  SLENDER. Where's Simple, my man? Can you tell, cousin?
  Claud. Yea, the same.
  TITUS. When will this fearful slumber have an end?  

  My body is the frame wherein 'tis held,
  Laer. Farewell.                                          Exit.
  PETRUCHIO. Come, where be these gallants? Who's at home?
  CASSIO. Prithee, come; will you?
    Allow their officers, and are content
    Ere that correction. Troilus, I say! What, Troilus!
  KING RICHARD. And, Norfolk, throw down his.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. The more shame for ye; holy men I thought ye,
  Pedro. Thou wilt be like a lover presently

    My patience here is touch'd. I do perceive
    To sort our nobles from our common men;
  WARWICK. Yield, my Lord Protector; yield, Winchester;
    Hath doubtfully pronounc'd thy throat shall cut,  
     And when your mistress hears thus much from you,
  Sir M. Doubt not, my lord, they shall be well oppos'd.
    That you shall be my wife your dowry greed on;
    And when you saw his chariot but appear,
     Stain my man's cheeks! No, you unnatural hags!
    But all his mind is bent to holiness,
     She's there, and she is yours.
    Upon the grassy carpet of this plain.
    That best can aid your action.
    Come, sir; we will better it in Pisa.
    Which, unrevers'd, stands in effectual force-
    Percy, and that devil Glendower? Art thou not horribly afraid?
    the contrary. O Mistress Page, give me some counsel.
    have found time to use 'em toward a supply of money. Let the

                            Enter a LADY
  THESEUS. His speech was like a tangled chain; nothing im paired,
    Or sue to you to do a peculiar profit
  FLUELLEN. The perdition of th' athversary hath been very great,
     And must needs taste his folly.
    As partly I find it is, that your fair daughter,
                              SCENE 5.
  APEMANTUS. Yonder comes a poet and a painter. The plague of company
    falsehood may.
    Crowd us and crush us to this monstrous form  
  OTHELLO. Are not you a strumpet?
    Engage it to the trial, if thou dar'st.
    A sort of vagabonds, rascals, and runaways,
    'Aio te, Aeacida, Romanos vincere posse.'  
  BUCKINGHAM. That is too much presumption on thy part;
    I am as mad as he,
    O Iago, the pity of it, Iago!
                                                [A noise within]
  Reg. Lady, I am not well; else I should answer
    Far be it from my heart, the thought thereof!
    But all's not done- yet keep the French the field.
  LOVELL. Now, sir, you speak of two
    English, that shall go to Constantinople and take the Turk by the
    Breasting the lofty surge. O, do but think
    Wait in your royal walks, your board, your bed!
  Claud. And I'll be sworn upon't that he loves her;
  TRANIO. Then at my lodging, an it like you.
    Will I set up my everlasting rest
    An angry arm against His minister.
  MORTIMER. Direct mine arms I may embrace his neck
    beseech your Grace, let it be book'd with the rest of this day's
  ISABELLA. Save your honour!              Exeunt all but ANGELO
  Hot. O, would the quarrel lay upon our heads,

    What's in a name? That which we call a rose
    The other makes you proud. He that trusts to you,
  LIEUTENANT. Convey him hence, and on our longboat's side
  BANQUO. Good sir, why do you start, and seem to fear
  CRESSIDA. Guardian! Why, Greek!
     By her that else will take the thing she begs  
    As you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
    here's a goodly sight.
    Who glaz'd upon me and went surly by
  CLEOPATRA. I know by that same eye there's some good news.
    There is no end, no limit, measure, bound,
    a good conscience.
    afterwards.
    And her attainture will be Humphrey's fall
  POSTHUMUS. By your pardon, sir. I was then a young traveller;
  Pedro. In everything but in loving Benedick.
  QUEEN. If he be old enough, what needs your Grace
  MARIA. What a caterwauling do you keep here! If my lady have not
  LODOVICO. The Duke and Senators of Venice greet you.
    A mother's curse-on her revolting son.
    And see them ready against their mother comes.
  HOST. By my halidom, I was fast asleep.
    company, his cause being just and his quarrel honourable.
  AARON.  [Aside]  Now will I fetch the King to find them here,
  EVANS. As I am a Christians soul, now, look you, this is the
    And that we have a curse in having her.
    Bold as an oracle, and sets Thersites,
    And we must root him out. From your affairs


    I wasted time, and now doth time waste me;
  BIONDELLO.  [Aside]  As much as an apple doth an oyster, and all
  ROSS. That of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker;
    King Cerberus; and let the welkin roar.  
    That with his pretty buzzing melody
    His May of youth and bloom of lustihood.
    From those you sent to th' oracle are come

    Consent to swear.
  SIR TOBY. Why, let her except before excepted.
    hacks are on his helmet! Look you yonder, do you see? Look you
  ALONSO. Heard you this, Gonzalo?
  BASTARD. It is a damned and a bloody work;
  POSTHUMUS. And therewithal the best; or let her beauty
    And set a precious crown upon thy head,
  PISTOL. Shall dunghill curs confront the Helicons?  
    To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King.
    In which so many smiling Romans bathed,
  MALVOLIO. Fool, fool, fool, I say!
    I hope the King is not yet shipp'd for Ireland.
     rain water out o' door. Good nuncle, in, and ask thy daughters
    So please you, save the thanks this prince expects.
    Were not deriv'd corruptly, and that clear honour
    will not acknowledge it to be the-
     money. That fellow handles his bow like a crow-keeper. Draw me
    Black men are pearls in beauteous ladies' eyes.
  Beat. Speak, Count, 'tis your cue.
                                                  [Falls asleep]
    The Lady Cressida.
  Alb. She is not well. Convey her to my tent.
    And we'll not fail. When Duncan is asleep-
    Many sharp reasons to defeat the law.
  Friar. Lady, what man is he you are accus'd of?
      heard!
  FIRST LORD. It were fit you knew him; lest, reposing too far in his
        Enter SHALLOW, SLENDER, and MISTRESS QUICKLY
    Troilus, go thy way. Had I a sister were a grace or a daughter a
    'This we receiv'd,' and each in either side
    How will this fadge? My master loves her dearly,
    Cut off the heads of too fast growing sprays
    Instance, O instance! strong as heaven itself:
  And therefore art enforced to seek anew,
    Till Warwick or himself be quite suppress'd.
                                      Exeunt all but Iago and Cassio.
                           Exeunt FLORIZEL, PERDITA, and CAMILLO
    Then, feeling what small things are boisterous there,
    Mark it, Cesario; it is old and plain;
    To have this young one made a Christian.
    That will speak anything?
  PHEBE. And I for Ganymede.
  FORD. Though Page be a secure fool, and stands so firmly on
    Thou wast not made his daughter; and be thou sorry
    I'll rather dwell in my necessity.
  STEPHANO. What is this same?
    She sat like Patience on a monument,
    Than Telamon for his shield; the boar of Thessaly
    And see already how he doth begin
       flattering lords
    The most remark'd i' th' kingdom. As for Cromwell,
  PROSPERO. Let them be hunted soundly. At this hour
    Let's take the instant by the forward top;
    where to find me.  [Exit PAGE]  A pox of this gout! or, a gout of
    Dry up thy marrows, vines, and plough-torn leas,
    I know but of a single part in aught  
  PAROLLES. My lord, I am a man whom Fortune hath cruelly scratch'd.


  FENTON, a young gentleman
  BRITAINE. Normans, but bastard Normans, Norman bastards!
            Enter KING RICHARD and Guard
  CHORUS.      Philomel with melody, etc.       [TITANIA Sleeps]
    hurts nobody.' 'Nay,' said I, 'the gentleman is wise.' 'Certain,'
  PROSPERO. So, slave; hence!                       Exit CALIBAN
    In courtly company or at my beads,
    No sooner had they told this hellish tale
    Could I repair what she will wear in me
    Great Juno, comes; I know her by her gait.
  COMINIUS. Where is that slave
    turn'd nun, if it had not been for a hot midsummer night; for,
    And yet the steer, the heifer, and the calf,
    And bear this work of heaven with patience;
    And in our name, what she requires; add more,
    he could not compass.
    But I attest the gods, your full consent
  LONGAVILLE. O, some authority how to proceed;
  PISANIO. If not at court,
    Let Marcus, Lucius, or thyself, old Titus,
  BELARIUS. Well, 'tis done.
  CLARENCE. [Aside to GLOUCESTER] He knows the game; how true he

  BOYET. With that which we lovers entitle 'affected.'
  HERALD. Here is the number of the slaught'red French.
  CASSIUS. Go, Pindarus, get higher on that hill;
    No, not the hangman's axe, bear half the keenness
  ORLEANS. Is this the king we sent to for his ransom?
    thou variest no more from picking of purses than giving direction
    And every word in it a gaping wound
  OLIVIA. Give us the place alone; we will hear this divinity.
     Against the old kind King, or something deeper,
  A sunny look of his would soon repair.
    trots withal, who Time gallops withal, and who he stands still
    And yet my letters patents give me leave.

  Ham. Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.
  Hot. Not an inch further. But hark you, Kate:  
    the basket again, to meet him at the door with it as they
    I'll keep, if but for sympathy.
    And oftentimes excusing of a fault
    Skulking in corners? Wishing clocks more swift;
    God and King Henry govern England's realm!
    When Talbot hath set footing once in France,  

    I am a subject fit to jest withal,
  Gon. By day and night, he wrongs me! Every hour
    What feats he did that day. Then shall our names,  
    Into the clust'ring battle of the French;

        sister,
    my ward; for thence will not I to-day.                  Exit
  RATCLIFF. He smil'd, and said 'The better for our purpose.'
  IMOGEN. Good masters, harm me not.
  ROSALIND. O, my dear Orlando, how it grieves me to see thee wear
    Dorset your son, that with a fearful soul
    Some better than his value- on the moment
    To him or our authorities. For an end,
  CLEOPATRA. Seek him, and bring him hither. Where's Alexas?
    Or put upon you what restraint and grievance

    Your letter is with Jupiter by this.
  The statute of thy beauty thou wilt take,
  Reynaldo, servant to Polonius.
    still; when suddenly a file of boys behind 'em, loose shot,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  FALSTAFF. Carry Master Silence to bed. Master Shallow, my Lord
  AARON. Away, I say!
    For our case is as theirs.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Know you the man?
    He must be told on't, and he shall. The office
    Nor can imagination form a shape,
    My heart hath melted at a lady's tears,
  LAUNCELOT. Your worship was wont to tell me I could do nothing
    And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
    Away, thou rag, thou quantity, thou remnant;
    strange things. I have, since I was three year old, convers'd
    In thy eye that shall appear
    Thy dukedom I resign, and do entreat
    have not the skill.
  How much your chain weighs to the utmost carat,
    And made your other love, Demetrius,
  Prince. Hold up thy head, vile Scot, or thou art like
  Hero. If it prove so, then loving goes by haps;
  KING RICHARD. Go, then, and muster men. But leave behind
    Hath blister'd her report. She is with child;
    With sands that will not bear your enemies' boats
    It shall be his. You shall close prisoner rest,
    And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?
    What time I threw the people's suffrages
    Ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood.
  DUKE.                        This night.
    complexion. I had as lief Helen's golden tongue had commended
  PANDARUS. Is't possible? No sooner got but lost? The devil take
    I never more will break an oath with thee.
    Daring an opposite to every danger.
    According to our order.
  MESSENGER. Where's Caius Marcius?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Thy mistress' marks! What mistress, slave, hast thou?
    And by and by thy bosom shall partake
    Shall come against him.                            Descends.
    with a whole army shooting at me. She speaks poniards, and every
     Robes and furr'd gowns hide all. Plate sin with gold,  
    That like nor peace nor war? The one affrights you,
  SICINIUS. Well, here he comes.
    run from it?
    gown to keep him warm; and furr'd with fox on lamb-skins too, to
    Thus smiling, as some fly had tickled slumber,
    And turns it to exile. There art thou happy.
    Blown by surmises, jealousies, conjectures,

    The one part suffered, the other will I do.
    And you were sworn true subjects unto me;
  SECOND LORD. He pours it out: Plutus, the god of gold,
  POMPEY. If the man be a bachelor, sir, I can; but if he be a
  KEEPER. Why looks your Grace so heavily to-day?
    For God doth know how many, now in health,
  RICHARD. And if words will not, then our weapons shall.
    Betwixt two charming words, comes in my father,
    That such immanity and bloody strife
  SECOND PAGE. I'faith, i'faith; and both in a tune, like two gipsies

    So virgin-like without? Lo, here she comes.
                      Enter PAGE
    By giving the house of Lancaster leave to breathe,
    The azur'd hare-bell, like thy veins; no, nor
    That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat
    judgment- if I offend not to say it is mended- my quarrel was not
    And are you yet to your own souls so blind
    Therefore, go speak- the Duke will hear thy voice;
    Where I was wont to feed you with my blood,

                           Enter MARCIUS
    I found you wondrous kind. There is your ring,
    Within rich Pisa's walls as any one
  WARWICK. Poor Clifford, how I scorn his worthless threats!
  PAGE. [To the FOOL] Why, how now, Captain? What do you in this wise
    Would you imagine, or almost believe-
    When it deserves, with characters of brass,
  AARON. First know thou, I begot him on the Empress.
    That mightily deceives you.
    In this hard rock, whiles you do keep from me  
    Some nobler token I have kept apart
    But, lords, in all our bloody massacre,

<Exeunt
    But the Norweyan lord, surveying vantage,
    they shall know we have strong arms too.
  POMPEY. I do desire to learn, sir; and I hope, if you have occasion
  DUKE OF NORFOLK               DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM
  Hor [aside to Hamlet] Is't not possible to understand in another
    Soldiers should brook as little wrongs as gods.         Exit
    Must lie and fester.
    Myself am struck in years, I must confess;

  And suit thy pity like in every part.
  WINCHESTER. I do, thou most usurping proditor,
    Should have been cherish'd by her childlike duty,
  DERBY. We have not yet set down this day of triumph.
    When such a sacred king should hide his head!

    And these same thoughts people this little world,
    loveliness in favor, sympathy in years, manners, and beauties-
    Which they have often made against the Senate,
    And here choose I. Joy be the consequence!
    And as the dam runs lowing up and down,
                        Enter Ghost.
    I will go meet the ladies. This Volumnia  
  KING HENRY. It sorts well with your fierceness.
  HOSTESS. A pair of stocks, you rogue!
    If sympathy of love unite our thoughts.
    In nightly revels and new jollity.                    Exeunt
    Comes hunting this way to disport himself.
  King. Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
  PHEBE. That will I, should I die the hour after.
    Whilst Bolingbroke, through our security,
    out; he tells me flatly there's no mercy for me in heaven,
    Where either I must live or bear no life;
  ROMAN. I am joyful to hear of their readiness, and am the man, I
    And never mount to trouble you again.
    And with hot irons must I burn them out.
  POET. When we for recompense have prais'd the vile,
    Drive you to break your necks or hang yourselves!
    Did represent my master's blushing cheeks
    Wounds like a leaden sword.
  Therefore to give them from me was I bold,
Enter PANDARUS and TROILUS' BOY, meeting
  Serv. My master's.

    If I keep them, I needs must lose myself;
  PRINCE. My gracious liege,  


    and there's Madam Juliet.                             Exeunt
  Mer. If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.

    I dare and must deny it. Now I feel

  Weeping before for what she saw must come,
    When our deep plots do pall; and that should learn us
    first propose. His Highness hath promis'd me to do it; and, to
  PANTHINO. I think your lordship is not ignorant
    Shall with my cousin, your right noble son,
    As in these cases, where the aim reports,
          Must fill, or else my project fails,
  GLOUCESTER. And yet methinks your Grace hath not done well
  FALSTAFF. Hang him, mechanical salt-butter rogue! I will
    Did murther her; as that name's cursed hand
  IAGO. [Snatching it.] Why, what is that to you?
  Bene. Surely I do believe your fair cousin is wronged.
  Glend. A shorter time shall send me to you, lords;
  Wife. Enough of this. I pray thee hold thy peace.
    So to offend him still. This night's the time
                  Re-enter the BASTARD OF ORLEANS with  
  CASSIUS. Casca will tell us what the matter is.
  Jul. Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in pray'r.
    And after bite me; then like hedgehogs which
    Me, wretch more worth your vengeance. But alack,
  MOTH. It was so, sir; for she had a green wit.
SCENE III.
    What rub or what impediment there is  
  KING. Come, come, my lord, you'd spare your spoons. You
                                                    Exeunt ambo.
  ALL. Amen.                                              Exeunt
  SHALLOW. Well, fare you well; we shall have the freer


    Be sudden, for we fear prevention.

    Or else be impudently negative,

  DESDEMONA.            Alas, she has no speech.
    By all my hopes, most falsely doth he lie
  CORIOLANUS. What makes this change?  
  FREDERICK. You shall try but one fall.
  PROSPERO. He is as disproportioned in his manners
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  MARGARET. And yet I would that you would answer me.
  BRUTUS. We stay here for the people.
  AGUECHEEK. An you love me, let's do't. I am dog at a catch.
    To emblaze the honour that thy master got.
    Tread on the sand; why, there you quickly sink.
    For in my gallery thy picture hangs;
  CASSIUS. Why, man, he doth bestride the narrow world
  TOUCHSTONE. Then learn this of me: to have is to have; for it is a
    again. He so takes on yonder with my husband; so rails
    To whose high will we bound our calm contents.
  CYMBELINE. Thou'rt my good youth, my page;
    me? Put off your maiden blushes; avouch the thoughts of your
  SICINIUS. Live and thrive!
    Madam, my lord will go away to-night:
    That I regard it not.
    Thy likeness; for instead of thee, King Harry,
    So will this base and envious discord breed.
    'Poor forlorn Proteus, passionate Proteus,
     and a worse matter than that. I have received a letter this
    Which even now stands in act, that, for their souls,

    a sweet voice.
    Poor wounded name! my bosom,,as a bed,
    of stairs to marriage, which they will climb incontinent, or else
  Lord of the wide world and wild wat'ry seas,
    That horse that I so carefully have dress'd!
    When you come 'cross his humour. Faith, he does.
  TIMON. Fie, th'art a churl; ye have got a humour there
  FALSTAFF. But not kiss'd your keeper's daughter.
  Deserves the travail of a worthier pen,
    But with a heart full of unstained love;
    In this your cousin's death.
  ANGELO, the Deputy
    And in his simple show he harbours treason.
    And you may marvel why I obscur'd myself,
    Sorry am I his numbers are so few,

  FLORIZEL. Dispatch, I prithee.
  QUINCE. Marry, our play is 'The most Lamentable Comedy and most
    'Conscience,' say I, (you counsel well.' 'Fiend,' say I, 'you
  Thieves. Stand!
                                             Exeunt some of them
  Look sweet, speak fair, become disloyalty;
    To appoint myself in this vexation; sully
    is here with this exchange! Sure, the gods do this year connive
    That art thyself a man?
  Claud. I would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn the
    With the plebeians swarming at their heels-
    I cannot choose but tell him that I care not,
  SECOND KEEPER. Say, what art thou that talk'st of kings and queens?
    Troilus, farewell! One eye yet looks on thee;
    That you shall all repent the loss of mine.
  Pedro. Will you have me, lady?
    defend me.
  YORK. I thank you, gentle uncle. O, my lord,
    And shall I then be us'd reproachfully?
    the young gentleman gives him out to be of good capacity and
     Which else were shame, that then necessity
    them then such an affection which cannot choose but branch now.
    doublet and hose ought to show itself courageous to petticoat;

  SECOND MURDERER. What shall we do?
     In his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs.
    With all their sixty, fly and turn the rudder.
                                                [Coming forward]
  Pedro. What secret hath held you here, that you followed not to
                                                          Exeunt
    The plate, coin, revenues, and moveables,
  Fellow. I have a head, sir, that will find out logs
    ward, evermore in subjection.
    Until I see the ring.  
    but you fall to some discord. You are both, i' good truth, as
    Am I or that or this for what he'll utter
    My conscience bids me ask- wherefore you have
    north,
    If Marcius should be join'd wi' th' Volscians-
          When brewers mar their malt with water;
    to prison was worth five thousand of you all.
    Thy sly conveyance and thy lord's false love;
    And think it no addition, nor my wish,
  GRIFFITH. Madam, we are here.
  VALENTINE. My youthful travel therein made me happy,  
    you.
    In him that did object the same to thee.
  BASTARD. Because he hath a half-face, like my father.
  Bora. Didst thou not hear somebody?

    In the devotion of a subject's love,
    Lolling the tongue with slaught'ring, having work
    That should consume it, I have not the face
    But when the blast of war blows in our ears,
    Makes me the better to confer with thee.
  Ben. Why, Romeo, art thou mad?
  FLAVIUS. They answer, in a joint and corporate voice,
    Comes it not something near?
    To spy an I can hear my Thisby's face.  
                                [The bearers take up the coffin]
  Hiding thy brav'ry in their rotten smoke?
    A green and gilded snake had wreath'd itself,
                          Enter YORK
  SIR TOBY. That defence thou hast, betake thee tot. Of what nature
    And in his needy shop a tortoise hung,
  SLENDER. All his successors, gone before him, hath done't;
 EROS. Most noble sir, arise; the Queen approaches.
    The rest are princes, barons, lords, knights, squires,

          Since summer first was leavy.
    That all the treasons for these eighteen years
                    Enter YORK
    Had lov'd you as we did.
        Will be worth a Jewess' eye.                        Exit
  FALSTAFF. Heavens defend me from that Welsh fairy, lest he
    every hedge.
    you, looks for us all. We must away all, to-night.
    Thou, brother Montague, in Buckingham,
  CHARMIAN. O Cleopatra! thou art taken, Queen!
  A ROMAN CAPTAIN
  MRS. PAGE. Within a quarter of an hour.
    Men and men's fortunes could I frankly use

    Which he so sets at nought.
    Unmannerly intruder as thou art!
  MALVOLIO. There is example for't: the Lady of the Strachy married
Enter PHILARIO, IACHIMO, a FRENCHMAN, a DUTCHMAN, and a SPANIARD
    On us thou canst not enter but by death;
    What is amiss, plague and infection mend!
    He loves me well, and I have given him reasons;
    To back thy quarrels, whatsoe'er they be.               Exit
                               Here the Lady sings a Welsh song.
  King. I will do so.
  ULYSSES. No; you see he is his argument that has his argument-
    but I mark'd him not; and yet he talked very wisely, but I
  LORD FITZWATER                        BISHOP OF CARLISLE
    For me, most wretched, to perform the like.
  BRUTUS. Most willingly.
        The fraud of men was ever so,
  HOST. Pardon, Guest Justice. A word, Mounseur Mockwater.

    For now he firmly takes me for Revenge;  
    Made me collect these dangers in the Duke.
    'To seek him here that means not to be found.
    Where I have took them up.
    Out of myself, press me to death with wit!
    Added to that that am to deliver!
  KING.  [To NORFOLK and SUFFOLK]  We are busy; go.
    troth, I am sick.
  PAROLLES. Well, thou hast a son shall take this disgrace off me:
    And in the cup an union shall he throw
    With all advantages.
    And watch'd the time to shoot.
    Poor Cassio's smiles, gestures, and light behavior
    kernal in this light nut; the soul of this man is his clothes;
              Against thy deity.
    wildly, and would needs speak with you presently.
    To mask thy monstrous visage? Seek none, Conspiracy;
    everything in extremity. I must hence to wait. I beseech you
Exit.
      Such love must needs be treason in my breast.
  My wife, more careful for the latter-born,

  FALSTAFF. Good hearts, devise something; any extremity
    And stick musk-roses in thy sleek smooth head,
    Young Bertram.
  That thou art blamed shall not be thy defect,
  Fixing our eyes on whom our care was fix'd,
  MARIA. Nay, pursue him now, lest the device take air and taint.
    Direct not him whose way himself will choose.
    lord the King, thy royal husband: the pretence whereof being by
    know that of your honour.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry
    Without apparent hazard of his life.
    More fairer than fair, beautiful than beauteous, truer than truth
    Small as an eunuch or the virgin voice
    Here's a good world the while! Who is so gros
         And will he not come again?
    Above ten thousand meaner movables
    believe it; which, I warrant, she is apter to do than to confess
  O then vouchsafe me but this loving thought,
ADRIANA. The hours come back! That did I never hear.
  Against strange maladies a sovereign cure:
    the spoil of her honour. He hath given her his monumental ring,
    fellow with the best king, thou shalt find the best king of good
    Will tie you to the numbers and the time  
    He told me that rebellion had bad luck,
    With lies well steel'd with weighty arguments;
  THYREUS. Hear it apart.
    A man worth any woman; overbuys me
    Yea, curse his better angel from his side,
  KING PHILIP. Speak England first, that hath been forward first
    Of what conditions we shall stand upon?
    For, I protest, we are well fortified,
    With charitable bill- O bill, sore shaming
  SUFFOLK. My Lord Protector, so it please your Grace,
    The borrowed glories that by gift of heaven,
    London. Now the Lord bless that sweet face of thine. O Jesu, are
    And did deserve his change. For what I have conquer'd
  Claud. Yea, and text underneath, 'Here dwells Benedick, the married
  HOSTESS. O Lord, ay! good Master Snare.
    orchard, like a bum-baily; so soon as ever thou seest him, draw;
    To the unsatisfied.
                          Re-enter QUINCE
    to live.
    Adore our errors, laugh at's while we strut
    Yes, faith, heartily.
    went to cuffs in the question.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Alack, and what shall good old York there see
    That cures us both. I am much sorry, sir,
    Even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance
    And therefore have I little talk'd of love;
    And have no vigour in them.
    Now presently I'll give her father notice
    We pout upon the morning, are unapt
    Evil-ey'd unto you. You're my prisoner, but
  PERDITA, daughter to Leontes and Hermione
    And force the tyrant from his seat by war.
    pale. I tell you yet again, Banquo's buried; he cannot come out
  LEPIDUS. Farewell, my lord. What you shall know meantime
        Ne'er to pluck thee from thy thorn;
    me whether one Launcelot, that dwells with him, dwell with him or

  HUBERT. Badly, I fear. How fares your Majesty?
  Bene. Think not on him till to-morrow. I'll devise thee brave  
    Was the first motive that I woo'd thee, Anne;
  KATHERINA. I care not.
    And sleep and snore, and rend apparel out-
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  DUKE. There's for thy pains.
  BOTH. Do we, my lord?
    Yet there he was; and there I found this credit,
                                              Exeunt all but PANDARUS
    That would be rid of such an enemy.
    Thus doth He force the swords of wicked men
     The treasury of life when life itself
    But, as it were, in sort or limitation,
    The tread of a man's foot. To th' wars!
    O'erbears it and burns on.
  LUCIUS. Stay, father! for that noble hand of thine,
  Three Musicians.
    Die neither mother, wife, nor England's Queen!
  Owen Glendower.
  OLIVIA. Give me my veil; come, throw it o'er my face;  
    I fear it is; and yet methinks it should not,
                                          [MAMILLIUS is led out]
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. O-Sixpence that I had a Wednesday last
    play'd truant, and whipp'd top, I knew not what 'twas to
  MRS. FORD. I am half afraid he will have need of washing; so
  BRUTUS. The present wars devour him! He is grown
    And bid thy ceremony give thee cure!
    who dare scarce show his head on the Rialto; a beggar, that was
  Both. Yea, sir, we hope.
  Edm. 'Twas my duty, sir.

  King. At supper? Where?
  HELENA. Why then to-night
    I ask, that I might waken reverence,
  FIRST PATRICIAN. You do the nobler.
    For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune.
    Sh' adulterates hourly with thine uncle John,  
    sad face, a reverend carriage, a slow tongue, in the habit of


    In that it scorns to bear another hue;
    heard you were saucy at my gates, and allow'd your approach
    Know you not, master, to some kind of men
    This is the day appointed for the combat;
    Go hence, to have more talk of these sad things;
    Or like a cunning instrument cas'd up
    Which draught to me were cordial.
  By force took Dromio and my son from them,
     Strike flat the thick rotundity o' th' world,
    Turning his face, he put his hand behind him,
    I am barr'd, like one infectious; my third comfort,
  IAGO. 'Zounds, sir, you're robb'd! For shame, put on your gown;
    Is warlike John; and in his forehead sits
Dead March. Enter the funeral of KING HENRY THE FIFTH,
  CASSIUS. Chastisement?
    That I kiss aught but he.
          Since I have my dukedom got,
  ENOBARBUS. I'll strike, and cry 'Take all.'
    Trust not to rotten planks. Do you misdoubt

    In every point twice done, and then done double,
    As cannons overcharged with double cracks,
    And set abroad new business for you all?
  KING HENRY. By my troth, I will speak my conscience of the King: I
Enter the DUKE, attended; AEGEON, bareheaded;
  CHARLES, wrestler to Frederick
    Methinks I feel this youth's perfections
  DESDEMONA. It is my wretched fortune.
    Gone slightly o'er low steps, and now are mounted
    Yet confident I'll keep what I have swore,
  ARCHBISHOP. Will you thus break your faith?

    Teacheth this prostrate and exterior bending!
  LORD BARDOLPH. The question then, Lord Hastings, standeth thus:
  Cor. We are not the first
    Mortal, to cut it off: to cure it, easy.
  BASTARD. Madam, by chance, but not by truth; what though?
  Lear. Who put my man i' th' stocks?
    And you, good uncle, banish all offence:
  GREMIO. Here's packing, with a witness, to deceive us all!
    light upon you all!
  SALERIO. Marry, well rememb'red;
  KING. Thou bring'st me happiness and peace, son John;
  BELARIUS, a banished lord, disguised under the name of Morgan
    Wilt take thy chance with me? I will not say
  LAVINIA. I say no;
    And stops my tongue, while heart is drown'd in cares.  
    All my fond love thus do I blow to heaven.
  TITUS. Soft! So busily she turns the leaves! Help her.
  ANGELO. Why do you put these sayings upon me?
  GLOUCESTER. 'Tis figur'd in my tongue.  
    For that my sovereign liege was in my debt
  KING. Let him on.
         Enter Publius, Brutus, Ligarius, Metellus, Casca,
    Or did it from his teeth.
     I will not trouble thee, my child; farewell.

    Standing on slippers, which his nimble haste
  PANDARUS. At whose pleasure, friend?
     (For now I spy a danger), I entreat you
    Manly as Hector, but more dangerous;
  TROILUS. It is your uncle.
    chamber.
    And the most noble mother of the world  
                        and others
    O, what a world of vile ill-favour'd faults
  APEMANTUS. Thou liest.
    Himself to Rome; his spirit is come in,
    Into the purse of rich prosperity
    So will I those that kept me company.
    say, but to parfect one man in one poor man, Pompion the Great,
    Your King and Warwick's and must have my will.
    man is beaten voluntary. Ajax was here the voluntary, and you as
SCENE II.
    Canonized, and worshipp'd as a saint,
    Shared dangers with you-
  GLOUCESTER. Then be your eyes the witness of their evil.
    away where my hogshead of wine is, or I'll turn you out
    And never yet did insurrection want
    If she deny to wed, I'll crave the day
  POMPEY. He dreams. I know they are in Rome together,
    You would have been contracted to a maid;
     Be fear'd of doing harm. Make your own purpose,
    We'll both together lift our heads to heaven,
  ALL. Lucius, all hail, Rome's gracious governor!
    That came awooing with you, and so many a time
    Draw near them then in being merciful.
  DUKE. And you, good brother father. What offence hath this man made
  FIRST LORD. O my sweet lord, that you will stay behind us!
    talking. Trinculo, the King and all our company else
  DIANA. It was not given me, nor I did not buy it.
                     12
    For none abides with me. My joy is death-
                            BLUNT, and others
                 Enter DUKE, disguised as before
  MARTIUS. Lord Bassianus lies beray'd in blood,
  Three themes in one, which wondrous scope affords.

     Will in concealment wrap me up awhile.
    bench? O, their bones, their bones!
  PRINCE. Yea; and you knew me, as you did when you ran away by
    Here to this devil, to deliver you.
    in silver.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  YORK. I shall not sleep in quiet at the Tower.
  CLOWN. Let her hang me. He that is well hang'd in this world needs
  Urs. I will, lady.
    Come lead me, officers, to the block of shame;
    That come to gather money for their corn.
    his own respect.
    The wife I chose? There can be no evasion
    That we may bring you something on the way.
  Cap. Monday! ha, ha! Well, Wednesday is too soon.
    And so far will I trust thee, gentle Kate.
    Where we may apprehend her and the Moor?
    Dear earth, I do salute thee with my hand,
    So many a thousand actions, once afoot,
    In secret ambush on the forest side
    earth; of earth we make loam; and why of that loam (whereto he
  NICANOR, a Roman
    Lest I surcease to honour mine own truth,
Excursions. Enter RICHARD and CLIFFORD
  King. Thus ever did rebellion find rebuke.
  Claud. Never tell him, my lord. Let her wear it out with good
    Both have I spill'd. O, would the deed were good!
    Will you do this? Keep close within your chamber.
    But in conclusion put strange speech upon me.
  Wor. Peace, cousin, say no more;  
    that Falstaff. Him keep with, the rest banish. And tell me now,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. The gold I gave to Dromio is laid up
  BASSANIO. Every offence is not a hate at first.
Enter LUCIUS with an army of GOTHS with drums and colours
  OTHELLO. The handkerchief!
  NORFOLK. How holily he works in all his business!
  TIMON. Whither art going?
    To wound thy lord, thy king, thy governor.
  Glend. Cousin, of many men  
    This fawning greyhound then did proffer me!
  GENTLEMAN. And you.
  COMINIUS. Flower of warriors,

  OCTAVIA. Do not say so, my lord.
    Didst thou at first, to flatter us withal,
    And in the towns, as they do march along,
    To all the plains about him; our children's children
    Send your trunk to me; it shall safe be kept
    thyself there is no love-broker in the world can more prevail in
  To serve their eyes, and in it put their mind;
    You had only in your silent judgment tried it,
    Transparent heretics, be burnt for liars!
    better of you than you have or will to deserve at my hand; but we
    That had not God, for some strong purpose, steel'd
  But bears it out even to the edge of doom:
    For him, poor soul. The proudest of you all
ADRIANA. What wilt thou do, thou peevish officer?
    And now, so you will let me quiet go,  

    And let me all your fortunes understand.              Exeunt
    These couples shall eternally be knit.
    Be not enshelter'd and embay'd, they are drown'd;
    He spoke, and learnedly, for life; but all  

    As Scythian Tomyris by Cyrus' death.
    I am undone; there is no living, none,  
     Unburthen'd crawl toward death. Our son of Cornwall,
  IAGO.                            Nay, this was but his dream.
    Proper to madmen, led his powers to death,
  IAGO. He hath, my lord; but be you well assured,
    In shape profane.
    That ever swore her faith.
    And to the strictest decrees I'll write my name.
    Which I hope well is not enrolled there.
  PROTEUS. It shall go hard but I'll prove it by another.
    You shall not make me welcome.
    Whether I live or die, be you the sons
    That's fed with stinking tallow- it were fit
    That what he fear'd is chanced. Yet speak, Morton;
    Give my sweet Nan this ring. There's for thy pains.
    Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay.  
    Sir, as I have a soul, she is an angel;

  CLOWN. Hang'd! by'r lady, then I have brought up a neck to a fair
  Pol. And let him ply his music.
                   Adieu, goodman devil.                    Exit

  HASTINGS. Why, Master Mayor, why stand you in a doubt?
    That Ferdinand is drown'd?
    The bragging Spaniard.
    And now, my Lord Protector, view the letter
  MALVOLIO. By this hand, I am. Good fool, some ink, paper, and
  A ring he hath of mine worth forty ducats,


    'Benedick' and 'Beatrice' between the sheet?
  IAGO. Those are the raised father and his friends.
    Why did you wish me milder? Would you have me
    be much at one. But, Kate, dost thou understand thus much
    It was much like to do. He answer'd 'Tush,
    To th' madding of her lord. On her left breast
by William Shakespeare
    No, if thou dost say no to my demand.
     Untimely comes this hurt. Give me your arm.
    Steps in to Cassio and entreats his pause.
  POLIXENES.  [To SHEPHERD]  O, father, you'll know more of that
    stomach.
    Unto the rainbow, or with taper-light
    But no more sights! -Where are these gentlemen?
    monster indeed, if they were set in his tail.
    For nature so preposterously to err,  
  KING JOHN. Come hither, Hubert. O my gentle Hubert,
  For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
  RODERIGO. Signior, is all your family within?
    of Daventry. But that's all one; they'll find linen enough on
    To enforce the pained impotent to smile.
    And take down th' int'rest into their glutt'nous maws.
    I'll beat thee- but I should infect my hands.
    of thy lovers, and they weep for thy death; therefore rouse up
  DESDEMONA. That I did love the Moor to live with him,
  Alb. How far your eyes may pierce I cannot tell.
  SEYTON. The Queen, my lord, is dead.

    Parson; for what is 'that' but that, and 'is' but is?  
    love of Juno, let's go.
  CLIFFORD. Health and all happiness to my lord the King!
    Was a most sainted king; the queen that bore thee,
    good trading that way. But tell me, Hal, art not thou horrible
  MORTIMER. With silence, nephew, be thou politic;
    Cannot with safety cast him, for he's embark'd
    Good bawcock, bate thy rage. Use lenity, sweet chuck.
  Gads. She will, she will! Justice hath liquor'd her. We steal as in

    With those that I saw suffer! A brave vessel,
  CRESSIDA. No, but brown.

    Had I been there, which am a silly woman,
    And all unlook'd for from your Highness' mouth.
  SIR TOBY. Accost, Sir Andrew, accost.
    bought out their services that you would think that I had a
    One pain is lessoned by another's anguish;
    Who by repentance is not satisfied

  Lear. You? Did you?
  Edm. I promise you, the effects he writes of succeed unhappily: as
  So are you to my thoughts as food to life,
     To him our absolute power; [to Edgar and Kent] you to your
    To Calchas' house, and there to render him,
    have known all our names as thus to name the several colours we
  DUKE. Be absolute for death; either death or life
    Unfit for other life, compell'd by hunger
    Say thou wilt walk: we will bestrew the ground.
  ANTIGONUS. I told her so, my lord,

    I would have had you put your power well on
    Make us strange stuff.
    our zeals, we should think ourselves for ever perfect.
    And be inheritor of thy desire.
  KING PHILIP. Our thunder from the south
    Where the Norweyan banners flout the sky
    And for I know she taketh most delight
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    be a fool; whose skull Jove cram with brains! For- here he comes-
    marking of it.
    Came to me, as I follow'd Henry's corse;
  BANDITTI. Soldiers, not thieves.
    I did receive fair speechless messages.
    To look into this business thoroughly
  MONTJOY. The Constable of France.
    in the stealer.
  LORD TALBOT, afterwards EARL OF SHREWSBURY
  PUCELLE. These are the city gates, the gates of Rouen,
    O, belike his Majesty hath some intent
  PRINCE. How might we see Falstaff bestow himself to-night in his
    your grandsires had nails on their toes-yoke you like draught
    Even in the jaws of danger and of death.
  This silence for my sin you did impute,
           But upon the fairest boughs,
    cut-purse; a good nose is requisite also, to smell out work for
  PAROLLES. I humbly thank you, sir. A truth's a truth-the rogues are

    Within there! Flaminius! Servilius!
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  CLIFFORD. I am resolv'd to bear a greater storm
  ANGELO. Hark how the villain would close now, after his treasonable
    Seal'd in my function, by my testimony;
    To make him seem long hence, as he shows now.
  JOHN. O, twice my father, twice am I thy son!
                            [Exeunt Manent the Prince and Peto.]
    Give to our tables meat, sleep to our nights,
    Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
    I pray you show my youth old Shylock's house.



     Who can arraign me for't?
    While some men leave to do!
    Commends the ingredients of our poison'd chalice
  DUCHESS. Yes, my good lord, I'll follow presently.
    Of what is to continue. Never mind
  CLOWN. Sir Topas the curate, who comes to visit Malvolio the
    Kingdom'd Achilles in commotion rages,
    I have not yet made known to Mariana
     Why, nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear'st
    A deep repentance. Nothing in his life
  DUKE SENIOR. Thou shalt have one.
  Edm. What, you have charg'd me with, that have I done,
  PROTEUS. Adieu, my lord; Sir Valentine is coming.         Exit
    Lords o'er their lords?
    To feeling as to sight? Or art thou but
    A journey to my loving Proteus.
  SHALLOW. By my fidelity, this is not well, Master Ford; this
    It did not speak before. All solemn things
    Is loathsome in his own deliciousness
  Unless a thousand marks be levied,
    it's all one. By God's lid, it does one's heart good. Yonder
    A drop of blood a day and, being aged,
                                    Exit, forced off by soldiers

  Possessing or pursuing no delight
  BERTRAM. I pray you, stay not, but in haste to horse.
  FLAVIUS. I beg of you to know me, good my lord,
    I hate the murderer, love him murdered.
  GRUMIO, BIONDELLO. O excellent motion! Fellows, let's be gone.
    The which thou once didst bend against her breast,
  FIRST LORD. What fit is this, good lady?
  CASSIO. Why, no; the day had broke
ACT III. SCENE I.
    Upon thy wicked dam, come forth!
  CLOWN. God send you, sir, a speedy infirmity, for the better
  Self, so self-loving were iniquity.
  That I might see what the old world could say,
  Hath oftentimes upbraided me withal;
  John. Are you not Signior Benedick?
    will have an apology for that purpose.
    We do condemn thee to the very block
  BANQUO. All's well.
    And woo your own destruction.
    Am I ridden with a Welsh goat too? Shall I have a cox-comb  
    May in the sworn twelve have a thief or two
    trot, dere is no duke that the court is know to come; I
    Now play me Nestor; hem, and stroke thy beard,
    Now, sweet queen.
  KATHERINA. Are you content to stay?
    Which, too much minded by herself alone,
Athens. The palace of THESEUS
    Ten thousand dollars to our general use.  
    O, I could wish this tavern were my drum!
    Nym, sir, that beguil'd him of a chain, had the chain or no.
    Tremble and start at wagging of a straw,
    By this same coxcomb that we have i' th' wind,

    Forth of my heart those charms, thine eyes, are blotted;
    The princely blood flows in his cheek, he sweats,
    His livery, and deny his off'red homage,
    For the hot vengeance and the rod of heaven
    How a score of ewes now?
    Is stol'n away to Rome; hath ta'en no leave;  
    To show the line and the predicament  
    Some lay in dead men's skulls, and in the holes
    A rotten carcass of a butt, not rigg'd,
    Here's a million of manners.
    What is your tidings?

    dumb innocent that could not say him nay.
    And parted thus you and your argument.
  CARDINAL. Bring me unto my trial when you will.
    Virtue with valour couched in thine eye.
  DIOMEDES. What, are you up here, ho? Speak.
    O heavenly Julia!
    While he enjoys the honour and his ease.
    Let us be wary, let us hide our loves";
    For shame, my liege, make them your precedent!
    Not us'd to toil, did almost sweat to bear
  Nurse. O God's Lady dear!
    he not be publicly sham'd.
    What should not then be spar'd. He is already
    neat-herds, three swineherds, that have made themselves all men
    Lord Angelo hath to the public ear
    to curse thus?
      hands to heaven. And so in their dancing vanish,
    That cause sets up with and against itself!
  Bora. Even he.
  ALL. Double, double, toil and trouble;


  PRIAM. Come, Hector, come, go back.
  Claud. 'Tis even so. Hero and Margaret have by this played their
    Of their dispatch.
    With you, my Lord of Lincoln; you remember
    Will raise us all.
    of my mouth ere it is made and finished. I speak but in the
    When we banish'd him we respected not them; and, he returning to
    Made it no conscience to destroy a prince.
    We have not yet been seen in any house,

    Your hand, my Perdita; so turtles pair
    From Ravenspurgh haven before the gates of York,
    Which, by a vision sent to her from heaven,
    With her prepared nails.                      Exit CLEOPATRA
  Wor. Then are we all undone.
    In every county as we go along.
    Unto his several mistress; which they'll know
    Following- her womb then rich with my young squire-
    We have as many friends as enemies.
    and as thou draw'st, swear horrible; for it comes to pass oft
  JESSICA. In such a night
    The little O, the earth.
  Leon. No? Come, brother, away!--I will be heard.
  TITUS. Marcus, even thou hast struck upon my crest,
  DUKE. Might you dispense with your leisure, I would by and by have
    In brief, sir, sith it your pleasure is,
    wheel, that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally.
    And bind the boy which you shall find with me
  Hor. What news, my lord?
  King. Let him demand his fill.
                Then to cart with Rosalinde.
    Not a frown further. Go release them, Ariel;
  Pedro. Nothing, unless you render her again.
    Even thou, and none but thou. Take it up straight.
    Procure your sureties for your days of answer.
    The field of Golgotha and dead men's skulls.
    Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.

    Stoop to the block than these knees bow to any
    The King's will be perform'd!
  Bora. We are like to prove a goodly commodity, being taken up of
    Run when you will; the story shall be chang'd:
France. Plains near Angiers
    Her eye, and tell me for what dull part in't  
  COUNTESS. The plot is laid; if all things fall out right,

    A joyful issue.
    work? Wilt thou whip thine own faults in other men? Do so, I have  
    Thy full petition at the hand of Brutus!
    Search Windsor castle, elves, within and out;
     So farewell to you both.
    And wring the awful sceptre from his fist,
  AARON. The Emperess, the midwife, and yourself.
    The union of your bed with weeds so loathly

    spite it for my sake, I will spite it for yours, for I will never
                Hand in hand, with fairy grace,
    mother, having power of his testiness, shall turn all into my  

  LUCIO. Away; let's go learn the truth of it.
  My thoughts and my discourse as mad men's are,
  SEBASTIAN. Thy case, dear friend,
  PRINCE. Would not this nave of a wheel have his ears cut off?

  RATCLIFF. My lord?
    I am too young, I pray you pardon me'!

  EVANS. Seese is not good to give putter; your belly is all
    'What shall betide the Duke of Somerset?'
  King. Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
    And, like the devil, from his very arm
    And Caesar shall go forth.
  HERMIONE. As merry as you will.
    mother, may prevail with him. But I say there is no hope in't;
    That though his actions were not visible, yet
    Hath nature that in time will venom breed,
  MORTIMER. Richard Plantagenet, my friend, is he come?

    Of every wind that blows.
    against him?
  His phoenix down began but to appear,
    And his soft couch defile.
    The great metropolis and see of Rome.
  FALSTAFF. But what says she to me? Be brief, my good she-
    Of war-mark'd footmen; leave unexecuted
    true, think you?
                            Enter Bianca.
    That you have in her, bid her answer truly.
    There, give it your hobbyhorse. Wheresoever you had it, I'll take  
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    You look but on a stool.
    They say Jove laughs. O gentle Romeo,
    They will talk of state, for every one doth so
    To show him what a beggar his heart is,

    The ancient Roman honour more appears
    Seen how his son's son should destroy his sons,
    Their pangs of love, with other incident throes
  How now, sir! Have you that I sent you for?
    So I, being young, till now ripe not to reason;
  All. Our duty to your honour.  
    Whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave
  BASSANIO.  [Aside]  Why, I were best to cut my left hand off,
    Lords?
    To take advantage of the absent time,



    I could drive her then from the ward of her purity,  
  ESCALUS. To my house. Fare you well.              [Exit ELBOW]
  DION,         "   "     "
    If e'er thou stand at mercy of my sword,
    Were there necessity in your request, although
    To look into the bottom of my place:
    Where Caesar fought with Pompey. But these offers,
    Bidding the law make curtsy to their will;
  COMINIUS. Nay, come away.
    O Lymoges! O Austria! thou dost shame
    That breath fame blows; that praise, sole pure, transcends.

    And the conjunction of our inward souls
    The traitor speak, and timorously confess
    For well I wot ye blaze to burn them out.
  Glou. He hath been out nine years, and away he shall again.
    Of the Cinque-ports.

    Sweet words; or hath moe ministers than we
    Aumerle is guilty of my true appeal.
  PROTEUS. But what said she?
    This is the palace of the fearful King,
    will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between

    And all thing unbecoming.
    As you shall give th' advice. By the fire
  SHYLOCK. You knew, none so well, none so well as you, of my
    Even in the birth of our own labouring breath.
    Of the young Prince, whose honourable thoughts-
    There is no tongue that moves, none, none i' th' world,
    But that, forsooth, the bouncing Amazon,
    The ostentation of our love, which left unshown
    'Tis but an hour ago since it was nine;
    And, by his soul, thou and thy house shall rue it.
    state-
    As levels with her breeding.
    For God's sake, let him have them; to keep them here,
  PROTEUS. Sweet love! sweet lines! sweet life!
    These men of Angiers; let us hear them speak
    And what is written shall be executed.
  HOST. Bless thee, bully doctor!

    With them forgive yourself.
    Marry, before your ladyship I grant,
  AJAX. Ha?
    What is your quarrel? How began it first?
    Which we much rather had depart withal,
    To buy and sell with groats; to show bare heads
    A bloody tyrant and a homicide;

  I know not thy mistress; out on thy mistress.'
    That twenty such rude boys might tend upon,
         Enter OBERON and TITANIA, with all their train  
  CAPUCIUS. Madam, in good health.
  OTHELLO.                      I'll tear her all to pieces.
  MARULLUS. Where is thy leather apron and thy rule?
    When I do rouse me in my throne of France;
Enter, on one side, DUKE disguised as before; on the other, ELBOW,
    Why, I, in this weak piping time of peace,
    Of the most bloody nurser of his harms!
  LEONTES. As now she might have done,
  Pierced not his grace, but were all graced by him.
    Thy heart to find it. Is she with Posthumus?
    comes amiss, so money comes withal.
    She, on his left side, craving aid for Henry:
    bet against the Danish. Why is this all impon'd, as you call it?
    So vulgarly and personally accus'd-
  CLEOPATRA. Get thee hence; farewell.
    shouldst hazard thy life for thy dinner. Wert thou the unicorn,
    As they say spirits do-at midnight, have
  VIOLA. Pray, sir, put your sword up, if you please.  
    We please them not by land.
    There lies the substance; and I thank thee, king,
    And make this haste as your own good proceeding,
    Th' uncleanly savours of a slaughter-house;
    me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me.  
    And be a day before our husbands home.

    Were but a feigned friend to our proceedings.
    Was yours by accident; had it gone with us,  
    bred better; for, besides that they are fair with their feeding,
    at an ancient tradition, begun upon an honourable respect, and
    Of smooth civility; yet arn I inland bred,
    Until the heavens, envying earth's good hap,
    Either now or by remissness new conceiv'd,


    Whose being I do fear; and under him
                                               Exit WESTMORELAND

    To keep your great pretences veil'd till when
  RATCLIFF. Ratcliff, my lord; 'tis I. The early village-cock
    And then be gone and trouble you no more.
    Unmannerly breech'd with gore. Who could refrain,
    Speak, Salisbury; at least, if thou canst speak.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    chain; but I warrant you, the women have so cried and
    easy yielding spirit of this woman, and made her serve your uses
  CASSIUS. Come, Antony, and young Octavius, come,
  And heavily from woe to woe tell o'er

  GRUMIO. Lend thine ear.
    Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign.
    Fall into th' compass of a praemunire-
    Do not repent these things, for they are heavier
    And therefore by His Majesty I swear,
OLIVIA'S house
     Do you see this? Look on her! look! her lips!
    Much good dich thy good heart, Apemantus!  

    So opposite to marriage that she shunn'd
    Thieves are not judg'd but they are by to hear,
    My shames redoubled! For the time will come
  CAITHNESS. Who knows if Donalbain be with his brother?
    But say it is my humour- is it answer'd?
    was not born under a rhyming planet, nor cannot woo in festival
    Quake in the present winter's state, and wish
    To him that does best. God forbid else. Cardinal,
    Your oaths are pass'd; and now subscribe your names,
    And never mayst thou come Lysander near!
  IMOGEN. Then wav'd his handkerchief?
    A king!-perhaps-
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Make forth, the generals would have some words.
  By rushing in their houses, bearing thence
    women so besiege us? Bless me, what a fry of fornication

  Corn. Leave him to my displeasure. Edmund, keep you our sister
    This sudden execution of my will.
    A man of their infirmity.
  GLOUCESTER. I pray you all, tell me what they deserve
    the court; but for me, I have an answer will serve all men.
  LEWIS. Now, Warwick, tell me, even upon thy conscience,
    Which by thy younger brother is supplied,
  And art made tongue-tied by authority,
    Lysander and myself will fly this place.
    That in gold clasps locks in the golden story;
    I did not think, sir, to have met you here.
    If whilst I live she will be only mine.
     Dismissing half your train, come then to me.
    She is abused, stol'n from me and corrupted
  What thou dost foist upon us that is old,
    But pay me terms of honour, cold and sickly


  GREEN. God save your Majesty! and well met, gentlemen.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>

    He shall not make me there a joyful bride!
    Of this vile politician, Bolingbroke.
    For he is superstitious grown of late,
    that they call compliment is like th' encounter of two dog-apes;
  WARWICK. The Cardinal's not my better in the field.



    We say that Shore's wife hath a pretty foot,
    This absence of your father's draws a curtain
  Than I to speak my griefs unspeakable;

                        Enter a Servant.
  If thy soul check thee that I come so near,  
    There's some great matter she'd employ me in.
    That hot rash haste so indirectly shed.
    But since it would not, he had none of me.
  DUMAIN. I think Hector was not so clean-timber'd.


     You taking airs, with lameness!
  ISABELLA. Most strange, but yet most truly, will I speak.
    While his own lands are bargain'd for and sold.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. God mend all!
    To stir men's blood. I only speak right on;
    I ne'er might say before. When I came back-
  PAGE. Yonder is a most reverend gentleman, who, belike having
  FIRST CITIZEN. Y'are long about it.
  PAROLLES. Faith, sir, has led the drum before the English
  FALSTAFF. Come hither, hostess.
    Came there for cure and this by that I prove,  
  Lear. No, no, they would not!
    The hue of dungeons, and the school of night;
  CHIEF JUSTICE. What! you are as a candle, the better part burnt
1599
    Here did she fall a tear; here in this place
  When I bestrid thee in the wars, and took
  BERTRAM. My thanks and duty are your Majesty's.
    My trusty servant well approv'd in all,
    evasions have ears thus long. I have bobb'd his brain more than
  And weep afresh love's long since cancelled woe,
      Captain,
  LYSANDER. I hod no judgment when to her I swore.
    Re-quick'ned what in flesh was fatigate,
  HORTENSIO. To her, widow!
    d'une, notre seigneur, indigne serviteur; excusez-moi, je vous  
    Go, hop me over every kennel home,
                        Enter Servingman.
  SEBASTIAN. This is the air; that is the glorious sun;
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Such is his noble purpose; and, believe 't,
                        Enter PRINCE HENRY

    Affection is not rated from the heart;
    them on!
    Your bounty, virtue, fair humility;
    Or look on thine; we could not stall together
  LARTIUS. He had, my lord; and that it was which caus'd
    needs no epilogue. Yet to good wine they do use good bushes; and
 Exit
    That before you, and next unto high heaven,
      A noise within, crying 'Room for the Queen!'
    fittest time to corrupt a man's wife is when she's fall'n out
    I will encounter darkness as a bride
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    And that may be determin'd at the one  
    Shall kin with kin and kind with kind confound;
    And, now it is my chance to find thee out,
    The rush that lies before him; cries 'Fool Lepidus!'
   By your own counsel is suppress'd and kill'd.
  AGRIPPA. There she appear'd indeed! Or my reporter devis'd well for

ACT II. SCENE 4.
    Deny your asking: take your choice of those
    And that my sword upon thee shall approve,
  Beat. He set up his bills here in Messina and challeng'd Cupid at
    These griefs, these woes, these sorrows make me old.
SCENE 2.
    No, faith, my coz, wish not a man from England.
  Lear. Am I in France?
    That drag the tragic melancholy night;
    He will be here, and yet he is not here.
    Within this three hours will fair Juliet wake.
    A mole cinque-spotted, like the crimson drops
    That play with all infirmities for gold
    For, in revenge of my contempt of love,
  Hor. It must be shortly known to him from England
    And threat me I shall never come to bliss  
    We have made to endure friends, that you directly
    Whereto thy tongue a party-verdict gave.
    Let me alone.
    live! But how out of this can she avail?
  CLOTEN. Is it fit I went to look upon him? Is there no derogation
    Lest leaden slumber peise me down to-morrow
    Give me the light. Upon thy life I charge thee,
    We will, according to your strengths and qualities,

    but in, as others do, to try with him the strength of my youth.
  Hero. No, not to be so odd, and from all fashions,
    Worth many babes and beggars!
  BUCKINGHAM. With what a sharp-provided wit he reasons!
    'Tis won as towns with fire- so won, so lost.

  Rom. This gentleman, the Prince's near ally,
  CLOWN. Truly, she's very well indeed, but for two things.
    sad and sad indeed too.
  EMILIA. [Within.] My lord, my lord! What, ho! my lord, my lord!

    Where Love is thron'd.
    erewhile.
    unfortunate in the infirmity, and dare not task my weakness with

    A drug of such damn'd nature. Those she has
  Samp. Fear me not.
    But love from love, towards school with heavy looks.

    pay?  
    And so I pray thee call Beatrice. I give thee the bucklers.
    Cry, "O sweet creature!" and then kiss me hard,
    My gentle Phebe did bid me give you this.
    And hang himself. I pray you do my greeting.
      face.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What, thou mean'st an officer?
    run mad; but, if with too much brain and to little blood they do,
    May that ground gape, and swallow me alive,
                      Enter SEBASTIAN
  DAUPHIN. Me well; which is the prescript praise and perfection of a
    I, sir. God buy you, good Sir Topas.- Marry, amen.- I will sir, I
    The surge most swoln that met him; his bold head
    thou, if the truth of thy love to me were so righteously temper'd
Before the walls of Athens
    The Prince and Claudio promis'd by this hour
    Chattels, and whatsoever, and to be
    Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so lov'st;
  Blunt. They tell thee true.
    So fast they follow. Your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
                                                   Music ceases.
    Bring in the admiration, that we with the
    The King mine uncle is to blame for it.
  OTHELLO. I kiss'd thee ere I kill'd thee. No way but this,
    But thus condition'd; thou shalt build from men;
    at the other door, BASSIANUS and LAVINIA, with others

COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  Gon. Nay then-
  CLOTEN. It is Posthumus' hand; I know't. Sirrah, if thou wouldst
    Be such a gosling to obey instinct, but stand
  GENTLEMAN. This I'll do for you.
  KING RICHARD. If thou love me, 'tis time thou wert away.
  ANTONY. Not stingless too.
  DUKE. Go, do it instantly.                        Exit PROVOST
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  GREY. The heavens have bless'd you with a goodly son
    Break up the gates, I'll be your warrantize.
    How now, young man! Mean'st thou to fight to-day?
  CRESSIDA. Pardon me, pardon me.
    Enter FORD, PAGE, SHALLOW, CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
    And-how, we know not-all clapp'd under hatches;
             Enter WARWICK, CLARENCE, OXFORD, SOMERSET,
    Unless a brother should a brother dare
    Even of the bonny beast he lov'd so well.
  The time was once when thou unurg'd wouldst vow
    At heel of that, defy him.
    Who to my father was a friend, to me
    Thou slander of thy heavy mother's womb,
    You'll bear me a bang for that, I fear. Proceed directly.
  COBWEB. Ready.
  LEONTES. One sev'night longer.
    I fear thee not.
    But, as the rest, so fell that noble earl,
  Ham. No, you will reveal it.
    Like one besotted on your sweet delights.
    tell them how much I lack of a man.
    The name of valour.                 [Sees his father's body]
    have railed so long against marriage. But doth not the appetite
    But by the chance of war. To prove that true
    cannot tell vat is baiser en Anglish.
    He must not be my brother.
    be that were not subject to a beast? And what beast art thou
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
Enter a FRENCH SERGEANT and two SENTINELS
   As I perceiv'd his Grace would fain have done,
    I give you; and gold confound you howsoe'er!
  Par. Thy face is mine, and thou hast sland'red it.
    O worthy Prince, dishonour not your eye
    A thousand times committed. Cassio confess'd it,
    i' th' herd.

  KING PHILIP. Speak, citizens, for England; who's your king?
    I followed fast, but faster he did fly,  
    The abuse of greatness is when it disjoins
    Thy lying tongue both numbers, I would say
  JULIA. If you respect them, best to take them up.
  ALCIBIADES. I never did thee harm.


    rebels.
    They'll pawn their swords for my enfranchisement.
    As that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea,

DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Should leave the helm and, like a fearful lad,
    This morning are they fled away and gone,

                     34
  ORLANDO. My lord, the first time that I ever saw him
  Hor. [aside to Hamlet] I knew you must be edified by the margent

    put off that with such contempt? But to the court!
    If you apply yourself to our intents-
    tongue for saying so. Thou has rail'd on thyself.
    Splits the unwedgeable and gnarled oak
    congruent, and measurable, for the afternoon. The word is well

    Talk like the vulgar sort of market-men
    Heavens shield Lysander, if they mean a fray!
  FLUELLEN. So! in the name of Jesu Christ, speak fewer. It is the
  BARNARDINE. [ Within ] Away, you rogue, away; I am sleepy.
  ALONSO. I am hers.
    Which served me as fit, by all men's judgments,

    insensible then? Yea, to the dead. But will it not live with the
  EVANS. Where is mine host?
  Thou sham'st to acknowledge me in misery.
    I would his troubles likewise were expir'd,
    Therefore commend me; let him not come there
    And he himself wand'red away alone,
    after thee? Wilt thou, after the expense of so much money,
  DUMAIN. The carv'd-bone face on a flask.
    Stand you thus close to steal the Bishop's deer?
    Without my stir.
  Jul. The clock struck nine when I did send the nurse;
    Expire before their fashions.' This he wish'd.
    away an it had been any christom child; 'a parted ev'n just

    And what is music then? Then music is
  Hor. A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
    prayers; but I cannot go thither.
    From whence thou cam'st, how tended on. But rest
    But I will have my lord and you again
    No, on the barren mountains let him starve!
    Our faith mere folly. Yet he that can endure
  AGUECHEEK. An't be any way, it must be with valour, for policy I
  CASSIUS. There's a bargain made.
    And wit's own grace to grace a learned fool.
    I will change it.
                   SONG

    A blessed lottery to him.
    And was he not in England prisoner?
London. The DUKE OF GLOUCESTER'S garden
    Fair payment for foul words is more than due.
  MACBETH. I'll call upon you straight. Abide within.
    be married.
    Myself in my incertain grounds to fail
  CAMILLO. My lord, your sorrow was too sore laid on,
    O Isabel, will you not lend a knee?
  Greg. [aside to Sampson] Say 'better.' Here comes one of my

    As you wish Christian peace to souls departed,

    Bequeathed down from many ancestors;
Scene III.
     And call itself your brother.  
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  CRESSIDA. You shall not go. One cannot speak a word
    It should be better he became her guest;
    To the protection of the prosperous gods,
    After the slander of most stepmothers,
  KING RICHARD. A thousand hearts are great within my
    There lies a downy feather which stirs not.  
    Can trip me if I err, who with wet cheeks
    He ne'er had borne it out of Coventry;
    But in ourselves that we are underlings.
    enough.
    As it hath been to us rare, pleasant, speedy,
    For man or master. Then it follows thus:
    These flags of France, that are advanced here
    Mid-way between your tents and walls of Troy
    When she will take the rein, I let her run;

    For your fair sakes have we neglected time,
  When I break twenty? I am perjured most,
    voluntary mute to my design. Be but duteous and true, preferment
  IACHIMO. Upon a time- unhappy was the clock
    Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do,'
  CRESSIDA. Diomed!
    May seem as shy, as grave, as just, as absolute,
The woods. Before TIMON's cave
  SOOTHSAYER. To none but thee; no more but when to thee.
    Except the Marshal and such officers
    it. Wonder not till further warrant. Go but with me to-night, you
  GLOUCESTER. [Aside to CLARENCE] Silence!
  LAFEU, an old lord
  GLOUCESTER. We are the Queen's abjects and must obey.
    That no man enter till my tale be done.
  TROILUS. O Cressid, how often have I wish'd me thus!
  Bene. Were you in doubt, sir, that you ask'd her?
  Queen. Why, how now, Hamlet?  


    As sure as in this late betrayed town
  OTHELLO. All's well now, sweeting; come away to bed.


  DUKE. By the vow of mine order, I warrant you, if my instructions
    We still have judgement here, that we but teach
                 PEMBROKE, and others
    As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' th' working,

         His old betrothed but despised;

    Out, out! I'll conjure you, I'll fortune-tell you.
    Farewell, my blood; which if to-day thou shed,
    Your princely father and my loving lord!
    Rivers that died at Pomfret! Despair and die!
    With cheerful semblance and sweet majesty;
  DIOMEDES. Why, then farewell;
    Then, as the manner of our country is,
  SAILOR. [Within.] What, ho! What, ho! What, ho!
    Appear not like a guest.
  RUGBY, servant to Doctor Caius  
    Hitting a grosser quality, is cried up
    For he, to-night, shall lie with Mistress Ford.       Exeunt
    And with his arms out-stretch'd, as he would fly,
              Enter SIR JOHN and SIR HUGH MORTIMER
  LUCIUS. Approved warriors and my faithful friends,
  THURIO. Not I.
    nails now. Wherein have you played the knave with Fortune, that
    My tear-stain'd eyes to see her miseries.  
  IACHIMO. You may wear her in title yours; but you know strange fowl
  LYSANDER. My lord, I shall reply amazedly,
    confirm my speech.
    Wherein Olivia may seem serviceable?

    with the maid; my mind promises with my habit no loss shall touch
    That long time have been barren.
    Come, boy, with me; my thoughts are ripe in mischief:
    And rest your gentle head upon her lap,
    have thrust virtue out of our hearts by the head and

SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  GLOUCESTER. She may, Lord Rivers? Why, who knows

    wooing at Master Page's.          Exeunt SHALLOW and SLENDER
    Seize on him, Furies, take him unto torment!'
    To what infectiously itself affects,
     Shall pass between us. Ere long you are like to hear
    Our court shall be a little Academe,
    Hath been between this lady and this lord.
    That mine eye loves it and doth first begin.
    Who should have died when Claudio lost his head;
    Diseases in our bodies. I must perforce
    flout me out of my humour. Dost thou think I care for a satire or
    Till this time pomp was single, but now married
  ROSALIND. Come, come, you are a fool,
and the DUKE OF AUMERLE at another
    And damn'd be him that first cries, "Hold, enough!"
    That sometime savours nobly. But hear me this:
    indeed, or do you but counterfeit?
    This was not she. O madness of discourse,
  KATHERINA. A pretty peat! it is best
    To see her in your arms.
    How parted with your brothers? how first met them?
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    A moth of peace, and he go to the war,
    I could beat him, whilst he rail'd at me! 'Sfoot, I'll learn to
    Nor was not to be equall'd.' Thus your verse
    And did commit you. If the deed were ill,
    In peril of precipitation
    Why, lo you now, I have spoke to th' purpose twice:
    He hath more worthy interest to the state
Alarum. Enter DUKE OF YORK, EDWARD, RICHARD, NORFOLK, MONTAGUE, WARWICK,
    Than to be dealt in by attorneyship;
    pray, Pompey, to increase your bondage. If you take it not
  PAROLLES. Mort du vinaigre! Is not this Helen?
  CALIBAN. Be not afeard. The isle is full of noises,
    See to my house, left in the fearful guard
    Shall touch the people- which time shall not want,
  BAPTISTA.  [To TRANIO]  Signior Lucentio, this is the 'pointed day
  WOODVILLE.  [Within]  What noise is this? What traitors
  Laer. Ay my lord,

    And so shall you, being beaten. Do but start
    From men of royal siege, and my demerits
  GONZALO. The King and Prince at prayers!

    Between two blades, which bears the better temper;
    What I have spoke; but farewell compliment!
    Being pent from liberty as I am now,
  ORLANDO. What sayest thou?
    Some faults to make us men. Caesar is touch'd.

    My haste made me unmannerly. There is staying
  Than of your graces and your gifts to tell.
  SECOND CAPTAIN. There was a fourth man, in a silly habit,
  OLD LADY. Our content
    And his ill-boding tongue no more shall speak.
    Might come to me again. Who's there?
  SALERIO. A kinder gentleman treads not the earth.
      noise, and behind him he leaves tears;
  CLEOPATRA. Most kind messenger,

  CONSTANCE. War! war! no peace! Peace is to me a war.
  OLD LADY. Alas, poor lady!
    Nor fearing me as if I were her father;
    Ne'er see thou man, and let me ne'er see thee.
    By heaven, Hubert, I am almost asham'd

    Mayst thou inherit too! Welcome to Paris.
    Though I am mad, I will not bite him. Call!
    Died every day she lived. Fare thee well!
    And when my face is cover'd, as 'tis now,
    I am sorry that by hanging thee I can but


    These both put off, a poor petitioner,
    Or I will tear the reckoning from his heart.
  Ham. I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
    Like one that stands upon a promontory
    And so, from hour to hour, we ripe and ripe,
  LUCIUS. O noble father, you lament in vain;
  CLEOPATRA. What's thy name?
    Of richest eyes; whose words all ears took captive;


  SICINIUS. Friend,
    By sight of what I have, your noble company.
    So shall thou feed on death, that feeds on men,
              Thou orphans' father art,
    Which art a lion and the king of beasts?  
    How you delight, my lords, I know not, I;
    Of Phoebus' burning kisses. Such a pother,
           Flourish. Enter DUKE FREDERICK, LORDS, ORLANDO,
  Kent. I love thee not.
  A chain, a chain. Do you not hear it ring?
  SICINIUS. Are you mankind?
    These words of yours draw life-blood from my heart.
    practice. Be cunning in the working this, and thy fee is a

    So let us still continue peace and love.
    Of many our contriving friends in Rome
  ISABELLA. Good sir, adieu.                              Exeunt


                                         Exeunt certain OFFICERS
AEGEON. Hopeless and helpless doth Aegeon wend,
    these presents'-
    Your Majesty's good thoughts away from me!
    To the succeeding royalty he leaves
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  Mine eye well knows what with his gust is 'greeing,  
  ORLEANS. He needs not; it is no hidden virtue in him.  
    Prepare thy battle early in the morning,
    remov'd fifty times, shall all come under the hangman- which,
    With one of an ingraft infirmity.
  SECOND SERVANT. Will't please your honour taste of these conserves?
    Good night, mother.
    by the entreaty and grant of the whole table. He'll go, he says,
  What hast thou then more than thou hadst before?
  Glou. I see it feelingly.
    Walk'd crowns and crownets; realms and islands were

    tale to me may be nothing but 'Anon!' Step aside, and I'll show
  CAMILLO. Hail, most royal sir!
  ULYSSES
    coronation. Dispatch, dispatch.                       Exeunt
    Goes on my master's griefs.
                         Enter CATESBY
    Hath overta'en mine act.

ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I am not furnish'd with the present money;
    So thou wilt woo; but else, not for the world.
    At last by notes of household harmony
  Serv. Find them out whose names are written here? It is written
    Your ignorance- which finds not till it feels,
  REIGNIER. Fair maid, is 't thou wilt do these wondrous feats?
    And eke out our performance with your mind.             Exit
    To offer service to your enemy;
  CYMBELINE. Ay, with all my heart,
    Like strengthless hinges, buckle under life,
  OLIVER. Now, sir! what make you here?
    First tried our soldiership. He did look far
  CLEOPATRA. His face was as the heav'ns, and therein stuck
London. The Tower-walls
                       Enter PAROLLES

  CYMBELINE. This hath some seeming.
    As he to me. Would he have stolen away
    And I believe will never stand upright
  Shall sum my count, and make my old excuse'
  QUICKLY. Does he not wear a great round beard, like a
    Lo here I lend thee this sharp-pointed sword;
     His speedy taking off. As for the mercy

    If he be chaste, the flame will back descend,
    Ling'ring perdition, worse than any death
  BASSIANUS. By him that justly may
    Under the moon, can save the thing from death
    This was my speech, and I will speak't again-
  Thou canst not then use rigour in my gaol.
    Of wisdom, gravity, profound conceit;

  SOMERSET. Well, I'll find friends to wear my bleeding roses,
    words nor measure, and for the other I have no strength in  
    But only painted, like his varnish'd friends?
  CYMBELINE. The time is troublesome.
     continually; 'tis her command.
    Go to; I'll make ye know your times of business.
  MARIA. A good lenten answer. I can tell thee where that saying was
    As he hath used of old.
    Give me that glass, and therein will I read.
    Comes from my lord with letters.
  MARGARET. Such commendations as becomes a maid,

     me.
    am famish'd in his service; you may tell every finger I have with
  APEMANTUS. Ay.
    Spoke by a holy monk 'that oft' says he
  Corn. Why art thou angry?
  SHEPHERD. Well, let us to the King. There is that in this fardel
    Pursue each other, or shall they be divided

  SIR TOBY. What wilt thou do?
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. No? A dozen times at least.
    perfume, they mock'd thee for too much curiosity; in thy rags  
    And vaulted with such ease into his seat
  PANDARUS. So he has.

  VIOLA. I saw thee late at the Count Orsino's.
    Upon his visage; and that all the walls
  For thy neglect of truth in beauty dyed?
    Thy nerves are in their infancy again,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. No longer from head to foot than
  FIRST SENATOR. Your company to th' Capitol; where, I know,
    Rumour doth double, like the voice and echo,
  OLIVIA. Am I made?
    The Moor hath kill'd my mistress! Murther, murther!
    Make thee beg pardon for thy passed speech
    Than a perpetual honour. Dar'st thou die?
    Not the king's crown nor the deputed sword,

    of Rome- his name is Balthazar. I acquainted him with the cause

  ULYSSES. [Aside] 'A would have ten shares.
  CLEOMENES. Not at all, good lady.
    Upon the number'd beach, and can we not
    Than is your Majesty. There's not, I think, a subject
  KING HENRY. Art thou against us, Duke of Exeter?
    For what I will, I will, and there an end.
    Upon the corner of the moon
    Would I be guilty of so deep a sin.
     Am pregnant to good pity. Give me your hand;
  LEONTES. Satisfy
    Speaker of the Epilogue  
    Mount, eagle, to my palace crystalline.            [Ascends]
    Most mighty Princess, that I have adventur'd
    The sort to fight with Hector. Among ourselves
    As is the ooze and bottom of the sea


  BUCKINGHAM. Lord Mayor, the reason we have sent-
          Sad true lover never find my grave,
  When I have seen the hungry ocean gain
  MARK ANTONY,         Triumvirs
                               Enter POMPEY  
  GRATIANO. He's gone, but his wife's kill'd.
    And so they shall be both bestowed. I have suffer'd more
  HASTINGS. O momentary grace of mortal men,

    For still 'tis beating in my mind, your reason
    When have I injur'd thee? when done thee wrong,
  PLEBEIANS. No, no, no, no, no.
  KING. Thou know'st she has rais'd me from my sickly bed.
    Lest Your retirement do amaze your friends.
    The heart of brothers govern in our loves

    That thou hast under-wrought his lawful king,
  Other. Mass, I cannot tell.
     Wherein we must have use of your advice.
  OLIVIA. Give me leave, beseech you. I did send,
  And all those beauties whereof now he's king
  OTHELLO.           Your napkin is too little;
  OTHELLO. Naked in bed, Iago, and not mean harm!

PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    That I account them blessings; for by these
    And heard a mermaid on a dolphin's back
    to see thee here, to see thee there; to see thee pass thy
    Now is it manhood, wisdom, and defence,
    And I'll be chief to bring him down again;
  LEONTES. Go on, go on.
    But then I sigh and, with a piece of Scripture,
                    PROSPERO observing, speaks
    Which serves it in the office of a wall,
    O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
     Shall we not see these daughters and these sisters?

    What danger or what sorrow can befall thee,
  Who hateth thee that I do call my friend,
    Even such a man, so faint, so spiritless,
    And put in every honest hand a whip
    Would testify, t' enrich mine inventory.
    Upon my head?
    In them a wilder nature than the business
  FLORIZEL. Now, good Camillo,
    'Justice and your father's wrath, should he take me in his
    I pray you, bring me on the way a little,
  DUMAIN. For the latter end of his name.
  AUMERLE. My father hath a power; inquire of him,
  ELBOW. Come your way, sir. Bless you, good father friar.
            The graces for his merits due,  
    field.
    Of brothers' temper, do receive you in
Storm still. Enter Kent and a Gentleman at several doors.
    Tranio, I burn, I pine, I perish, Tranio,
    PHRYNIA
    Can speak like us. Then wisely, good sir, weigh
    Of my alleged reasons, drives this forward.
    Presented to the tears of soft remorse.
    be gone. I will make an end of my dinner; there's pippins
    I must begin with rudiments of art,
    Our talk must only be of Benedick.  
  AUTOLYCUS. O sir, the loathsomeness of them offend me more than the
    go?                                                   Exeunt
    Made me neglect my studies, lose my time,
  KING. Sir, for my thoughts, you have them ill to friend
    sometimes, leaving the fear of God on the left hand, and hiding
    My reasons are most strong; and you shall know them
  After you first forswore it on the mart;
    Give thee thy hire and send thy soul to hell,
    The canker galls the infants of the spring
    Do this expediently, and turn him going.              Exeunt
  RAMBURES. Who will go to hazard with me for twenty prisoners?
    So madly hot that no discourse of reason,
  Con. Masters--
    Or some enchanted trifle to abuse me,
    What, art thou stiff? Stand'st out?

    I put myself to thy direction and  
    much on her; followed her with a doting observance;

  KATHERINA. Mistress, how mean you that?
  Love lacked a dwelling and made him her place;
  CLEOPATRA. I will be even with thee, doubt it not.
  Cap. A jealous hood, a jealous hood!
  IAGO. Why did he so?
    Do well thrive by them; and when they have lined their coats

  TOUCHSTONE. I do, truly, for thou swear'st to me thou art honest;
    Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes,
    Heir to the crown-meaning indeed his house,
    He stuck them up before the fulsome ewes,

    That Photinus an eunuch and your maids  
  BANQUO. Look, how our partner's rapt.
    Is that poor man that hangs on princes' favours!
    Issue to me; that the contending kingdoms
                                      [Pushes him away from him]
    Since he hath got the jewel that I loved,
    I will go meet them; and, my lord Aeneas,

    I would say thou hadst suck'd wisdom from thy teat.
    A woman of less place might ask by law-
    Yet nature might have made me as these are,
    folly. Follow me, Ned.
    But I will wed thee in another key,
  SEBASTIAN. I would not by my will have troubled you;
    spurs so long. How does he carry himself?
    A ring in chase of you; so did I abuse
  FENTON. Yet hear me speak. Assist me in my purpose,
  LUCENTIO. Biondello, what of that?
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    to challenge him the field, and then to break promise with him
The same.
  BOTH MURTHERERS. We are resolved, my lord.
  COSTARD. Walk aside the true folk, and let the traitors stay.
    There my Lysander and myself shall meet;
  Lear. Darkness and devils!
  Oph. (sings)
    For God forbid so many simple souls
  Cor. And so I am! I am!
  My heavy burden ne'er delivered.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. To three thousand dolours a year.
  FIRST MURDERER. Soft! he wakes.

    condition they account gentle; and since the wisdom of their
    Continual meditations, tears, and sorrows,
    Her sister Katherine welcome'd you withal?
    By Jove, 'twould be my mind!

  CALIBAN. I'll kiss thy foot; I'll swear myself thy
  BRUTUS. Follow me then.                                Exeunt.
   So that the art and practic part of life
    But leave their flocks and, under your fair conduct,
  GOWER
  ARIEL. What would my potent master? Here I am.


    Nor thou within the compass of my curse.
    cannot; but I love thee, none but thee; and thou deserv'st it.
    year together, you'll be glad to give out a commission for more  
    Young lad, come forth; I have to say with you.
    To fall in love with what she fear'd to look on!
    So the proportions of defence are fill'd;
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I look'd for the chalky cliffs, but I
  BOTH TRIBUNES. Well, sir.
    that if we will plant nettles or sow lettuce, set hyssop and weed

      And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so.
    Will praise a hand, a foot, a face, an eye,
    And comforts to your cause.  
  SIR TOBY. To him in thine own voice, and bring me word how thou
     There, take my coxcomb! Why, this fellow hath banish'd two on's
                                    Exeunt VALENTINE and PROTEUS
  BOLINGBROKE. Look what I speak, my life shall prove it true-
    And what hath mass or matter by itself
  WARWICK. See how the pangs of death do make him grin

    This by Calpurnia's dream is signified.

  
    Exceeding those that I can wish upon thee,
  PAROLLES. Use a more spacious ceremony to the noble lords; you have
    Which the air beats for vain. O place, O form,
    So sure I swear to get the town or die.
    the least sinister usage.
             What! stain'd with blood?
    his authorities. But such officers do the King best service in
    Than what you should, made you against the grain
  ALENCON. He may mean more than we poor men do know;
  ENOBARBUS. So hath my lord dar'd him to single fight.
    The dibble in earth to set one slip of them;
    With you, mine alder-liefest sovereign,
ACT I. SCENE 3.
  Ros. Ay, that they do, my lord- Hercules and his load too.
    you should know my daughter by her garments?
    Having no more but thought of what thou wast
    which the Prince admits him. For the Prince himself is such
     Hasten his musters and conduct his pow'rs.
    Wert thou as young as I, Juliet thy love,
    The very tyranny and rage of his.
    And comfort you, my master.  
    Divine his downfall? Say, where, when, and how,
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Your means are very slender, and your waste is
    certainly-
    Coriolanus will carry it.
    I'll plead for you myself but you shall have him.
    Turning past evils to advantages.
  MAECENAS. If it might please you to enforce no further
    Meetest for death; the weakest kind of fruit
     and Messengers
    He may recover yet.                     Exeunt with the body
    Or women's sake, by whom we men are men-
  CASCA. Indeed they say the senators tomorrow
ACT IV. SCENE I.
    As cause will be obey'd. Please you to march;
  HOSTESS. What's the matter?
    wrongs you.
    -out of my conversation, that he dares in this manner
SCENE VII.
  IAGO. Work on,
  EDWARD. Now, perjur'd Henry, wilt thou kneel for grace
  CLOWN. Maintain no words with him, good fellow.- Who, I, sir? Not
  SHALLOW. Did her grandsire leave her seven hundred pound?
    I shall not find myself so apt to die;
            Enter PAGE and MISTRESS PAGE

    escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can
    And break your own neck down.
      Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
    For, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone
    And with that painted hope braves your mightiness;
    Till I have learnt thy language: for thy tongue
    Pompey doth this day laugh away his fortune.
    To such exsufflicate and blown surmises,
    At such a bay, by turn to serve our lust.
  
  JAMY. I say gud day, Captain Fluellen.
    it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious
  EROS. My sword is drawn.
  Corn. Cunning.
    I crave our composition may be written,
    house in it, after threepence a bay. If you live to see this come
    And cry out for thee to close up mine eyes,
    Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw  
    As much good stay with thee as go with me!  
    In Egypt with his joy; but between both.


    Fly, therefore, noble Cassius, fly far off.
  POSTHUMUS. May be she pluck'd it of
    But two months dead! Nay, not so much, not two.
    When thy first griefs were but a mere conceit,
  BASTARD. Where's the Prince Dauphin? I have news for him.  
    And in her most unmitigable rage,

  KING HENRY. Then keep thy vow, sirrah, when thou meet'st the
    As I wear mine are titles but of scorn.
  Such heavenly touches ne'er touched earthly faces.
          Have more than thou showest,
  ENOBARBUS. Half the heart of Caesar, worthy Maecenas! My honourable

  HOST. I have spoke; let him follow.  [To BARDOLPH]  Let me
  '"Lo, all these trophies of affections hot,
  CARDINAL. A breach that craves a quick expedient stop!
    More than my dancing soul doth celebrate

  ISABELLA. That's he, indeed.
  FORD. Why, sir, my wife is not young.
    Live with authority. So soon we shall drive back
    common. If anything fall to you upon this more than thanks and
  Hero. He is the only man of Italy,
    Look, he has spied us.
    Your vile intent must needs seem horrible.
    'Hath sent to me, wishing me to permit
    And throw the rider headlong in the lists,
  His goods confiscate to the Duke's dispose,
    Then take my soul-my body, soul, and all,
    I have sent for these strawberries.
  SANDYS. By my faith,
    thing; I am a man as other men are.' And there, indeed, let him
    You are disputing of your generals:
    From wayward sickness and no grounded malice.
     To be such men as may besort your age,
    Of drops that sacred pity hath engend'red;
    and perturbation follows her.
  ARTHUR. God shall forgive you Coeur-de-lion's death
    For I will throw my glove to Death himself
    The secret whispers of each other's watch.
    Even by the squand'ring glances of the fool.
     Thou say'st the King grows mad: I'll tell thee, friend,
  POMPEY. Come, fear not you: good counsellors lack no clients.
    There is no day for me to look upon.
    For which I would not plead, but that I must;
    peril on his forwardness.

    That I would rather hide me from my greatness-
    The thing I shall repent. See, see, your silence,
    is the prince of the world; let his nobility remain in's court. I
    A losing suit against him. Are you answered?
                     Re-enter MISTRESS FORD
    Where is Lord Stanley quarter'd, do you know?
    Abides in me; I say amen to her.
  VIOLA, sister of Sebastian
    Which I will win from France, or else be slain.

    So he that doth redeem her thence might wear
    Your safety manifested.  
  SATURNINUS. No, Titus, no; the Emperor needs her not,
ADRIANA. Go back again, thou slave, and fetch him home.
    Didst thou not tell me, Griffith, as thou led'st me,
    to you, fair queen! Fair thoughts be your fair pillow.
    out of a pomegranate; you are a vagabond, and no true traveller;
    And not be seen to wink of all the day-
    To be forestalled ere we come to fall,  
  KING HENRY. Praised be God, and not our strength, for it!
  AGUECHEEK. What's that?
    sworn enemy,

    Hence both are gone with conscience and remorse
    That e'er the sun shone bright on.
    Not what you have reserv'd, nor what acknowledg'd,

    And led my country's strength successfully,
  No praise to thee, but what in thee doth live.  
  DUKE. Her chamber is aloft, far from the ground,  
    Advanc'd their eyelids, lifted up their noses
    some boot.  [Giving money]  
    Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
    It should the good ship so have swallow'd and
  KING JOHN. England for itself.
    My father gave my mother.
  KING. Farewell, young lords; these war-like principles
  Alb. Save him, save him!
  PROSPERO. Know thus far forth:
  POSTHUMUS. I am merrier to die than thou art to live.
    Unpruned dies; her hedges even-pleach'd,
    Stir up the Athenian youth to merriments;
    That swells with silence in the tortur'd soul.
    The life o' th' need. Having found the back-door open
  Ber. Have you had quiet guard?
                                                          Exeunt
                      Re-enter LYSANDER
    O, serve me well, and teach yourselves that duty!
    But let him say so then, and let him go;


                                                  Exit SALISBURY
    Opinion, that did help me to the crown,

    Has caught me in his eye; I will present
  IAGO. In faith, too much;
  APEMANTUS. The more accursed thou that still omit'st it.
    Unfold the evil which is here wrapt up
    That thus we die while remiss traitors sleep.
    He that hath kill'd my king, and whor'd my mother;
  DESDEMONA.                   What's the matter?
  QUEEN MARGARET. Yes, I agree, and thank you for your motion.
    Our prayers to the gods, which is a comfort
    In winter with warm tears I'll melt the snow
    I thank you. By yond bush? Pray, how far thither?
    Thou shalt have charge and sovereign trust herein.
    Even there where merchants most do congregate,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    If thou with Caesar paragon again
    Resign'd the crown to Henry the Fourth,
    Thy two sons forth, who, by Belarius stol'n,

    From glist'ring semblances of piety;
    Run to your houses, fall upon your knees,
    Produce his body to the marketplace,
  BARDOLPH. Away, you rogue.

    If there be faith in men-meant for his trial
    That was not born of woman? Such a one
  Greg. 'Tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst, thou hadst been
    Prays, and destroys the prayer; no mid-way
    I shall give worse payment.  
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Villain, thou didst deny the gold's receipt,
    Were they at wars. It is but eight years since
Scene III.
    To bury so much gold under a tree
    I'll be myself the harbinger, and make joyful
    Cuts off his tale, and talks of Arthur's death.
  TAURUS, Lieutenant-General to Caesar
    it should be so return'd. If it be worth stooping for, there it
    For princes should be free.
  Consider how it stands upon my credit.
  CAMILLO. At the good Queen's entreaty.
    As if allegiance in their bosoms sat,
  BUCKINGHAM. Think you, my lord, this little prating York
    Not mov'd by Antony.

     And prize me at her worth. In my true heart
  ANGELO. The law hath not been dead, though it hath slept.
    'Tis more than we deserve or I expect.
    I could be merry now. Hubert, I love thee.
    I'll find about the making of the bed;

  EGEUS. Full of vexation come I, with complaint
    To England send him; or confine him where
    And therein show'd fike enemies.
  POSTHUMUS. I prais'd her as I rated her. So do I my stone.
    By bloody hands, in sleeping on your beds!
    drunk me would have bought me lights as good cheap at the dearest
  ESCALUS. That fellow is a fellow of much license. Let him be call'd
  PETRUCHIO. Whose tongue?
    Those that Hobgoblin call you, and sweet Puck,
    The horned herd! For I have savage cause,
    More dazzled and drove back his enemies
    At an unusual hour?
LUCIANA. With words that in an honest suit might move.
    makes it.
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
  SERVINGMAN. The four strangers seek for you, madam, to take their

    Which throes thee much to yield.
    By a vain, giddy, shallow, humorous youth,
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD sick, QUEEN ELIZABETH, DORSET, RIVERS,
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Sir, Sooth to say, you did not dine at home.
    As chaste as is the bud ere it be blown;
  BEROWNE. Ay, if 'a have no more man's blood in his belly than will
    Of private conference.
    Depriv'd of honour and inheritance.
                                                     [Kneels]
     judgment, to fight when I cannot choose, and to eat no fish.
                                        [Exeunt all but Hamlet.]  

    With silken coats and caps, and golden rings,
    But lest my liking might too sudden seem,
                     Exeunt CAMBRIDGE, SCROOP, and GREY, guarded

  Hor. Let him bless thee too.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE the two Antipholuses
  FIRST MURTHERER. His horses go about.
     Must be a faith that reason without miracle
    become the argument of his own scorn by falling in love; and such
    comfit-maker's wife. 'Not you, in good sooth!' and 'as true as I
    Where chance may nurse or end it. Take it up.
    he dances, he has eyes of youth, he writes verses, he speaks

    On thy low grave, on faults forgiven. Dead
    And even since then hath Richard been obscur'd,
    And wish-so please my sovereign-ere I move,
    More bound to's mother, yet here he lets me prate  
    That upon Sunday is the wedding-day.
    I and a true man.
    I am that Isabella, and his sister.
    I'll be your father and your brother too;
    Your own glass shows you, when you look in it.
    Amidst the other, whose med'cinable eye
                    Re-enter Desdemona, attended.
    You tempt the fury of my three attendants,
  Corn. [to Goneril] Post speedily to my lord your husband, show him
  IMOGEN. Well, or ill,
    The ragged'st hour that time and spite dare bring
    If from me he have wholesome beverage,
        Enter KING HENRY, disguised, with a prayer-book
    Make it their walk.

    All fears attending on so dire a project.
    What shall I do to win my lord again?
    And he will make the face of heaven so fine
    Of my success.                                          Exit
    Is crown'd so soon and broke his solemn oath?
  SECOND GUARD. Nor I.
                           Enter A MESSENGER
    [Exit ANGELO] Now, sir, come on; what was done to Elbow's wife,
  BURGUNDY. I will wink on her to consent, my lord, if you will teach
  Is from the book of honour razed quite,

   Assume the port of Mars; and at his heels,
    The baby beats the nurse, and quite athwart
     Enter [some of the Watch,] with Romeo's Man [Balthasar].
ACT V. SCENE I.
      Then farewell, heat, and welcome, frost.  
    When gold and silver becks me to come on.  
    From Lionel Duke of Clarence, third son
        men; and enter in the hurly burly the MAYOR OF  
    I thank you all and here dismiss you all,
    The Duke is made Protector of the realm;
  SPEED. O jest unseen, inscrutable, invisible,
  For his advantage still did wake and sleep.


  KING EDWARD. And would you not do much to do them good?
  FIRST SENATOR. We are for law: he dies. Urge it no more
    A master-leaver and a fugitive!
    priest that can tell you what marriage is; this fellow will but
    Leave us to ourselves, and make yourself some comfort
    And, being Protector, stay'd the soldiers' pay;
    Of place, time, fortune, do cohere and jump

    But to prevent the tyrant's violence-
    Favours that keep within. Come, Escalus,
    Of Hamlet's transformation. So I call it,
  KING RICHARD. So two, together weeping, make one woe.
ACT III. Scene I.

  Makes me with thy strength to communicate.
    Our instruments to melancholy bells,
    their cloaks;

    Is for a precious creature; as she's rare,

      pains.
    Even at that time I may be married too.
    That they did give the rings away to men;
    between two stock-fishes. But it is certain that when he makes
    But, since the affairs of men rest still incertain,
  The one by toil, the other to complain
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  Lear. How's that?  
    gifts a curtain before 'em? Are they like to take dust, like
    This thou perceiv'st, which makes thy love more strong,
  IAGO. So they do nothing, 'tis a venial slip.
    And tam'd the King, and made the Dauphin stoop;
  YORK. Well, my dread lord; so must I can you now.  
    Keeps Death his court; and there the antic sits,

  PLANTAGENET. Thy grave admonishments prevail with me.
    Are landed on your coast, with a supply
    Though Marcius earn'd them not; and all his faults
    You do remember all the circumstance?

    And in their steads do ravens, crows, and kites
    My resolution's plac'd, and I have nothing
    A special party, have by common voice
  KING RICHARD. Norfolk, throw down; we bid.
    I take not on me here as a physician;

  MOTH. A holy parcel of the fairest dames
    How is't, my soul? Let's talk; it is not day.
  PROTEUS. Nor I.  
    And that you fly them as you swear them lordship,
                                                Exit [Polonius].
  CORIOLANUS. Well, mildly be it then- mildly.            Exeunt
    for your succession in Denmark?
ACT II. SCENE 1.
     Should be sit here? This act persuades me
    His years but young, but his experience old;
  CONSTABLE. Doing is activity, and he will still be doing.
    Where many of the best respect in Rome,
  OTHELLO. It gives me wonder great as my content

     From her material sap, perforce must wither
    To do you salutation from his master.
  AARON. He that had wit would think that I had none,
  BASSANIO. Were you the doctor, and I knew you not?
    a bawdy house not above once in a quarter- of an hour, paid money
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  Edg. Poor Tom 's acold.
  And gives thy pen both skill and argument.
    With ourselves.
    Players in your housewifery, and housewives in your beds.
    As if there were some monster in his thought
    To lay so dangerous and dear a trust
    And rob his temples of the diadem,
    The shape of Love's Tyburn that hangs up simplicity.
    Doth rise and help Hyperion to his horse;



    Banish'd this frail sepulchre of our flesh,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Rosalind, meet. [To SILVIUS] As you love Phebe, meet;- and as I
  PHILARIO. His father and I were soldiers together, to whom I have
    To me the difference forges dread; your greatness
    For sorrow ends not when it seemeth done.
    If you do free your children from the sword,
    What foul play had we that we came from thence?
    And, by the necessary form of this,
    Yet do I hold it very stuff o' the conscience
  ROSS. Your castle is surprised; your wife and babes

  SATURNINUS. Ascend, fair Queen, Pantheon. Lords, accompany
    Will make this sting the sooner. Cardinal Campeius
    At which appear'd against him his surveyor,
  OLIVIA. Go thou and seek the crowner, and let him sit o' my coz;
    Upon the next occasion that we meet
  The spirit of love, with a perpetual dulness:
  CLARENCE. How darkly and how deadly dost thou speak!

    And now he writes to heaven for his redress.
    That I may back to Athens by daylight,
    She is as forward of her breeding as
    Dabbled in blood, and he shriek'd out aloud
    Why have you suffer'd me to be imprison'd,
    What late misfortune is befall'n King Edward?

    On me, and you, and mine, and yours, for this!
          Come to great confusion.
    I might in virtues, beauties, livings, friends,
    I'll try how you can sol-fa, and sing it.
    Playing on pipes of corn, and versing love

    My purposes do draw me much about.
    Stand up.
    Made to my father, while his blood was poor,
    Does unmake you. I have given suck and know
    I have your alms. Adieu.
  CLOTEN. Soft! What are you
Westminster. A street
    Turns into yellow gold his salt green streams.
                                   Exit with JESSICA and SALERIO
    That beauty still may live in thine or thee.
  OLIVIA. God comfort thee! Why dost thou smile so, and kiss thy hand
    For did I but suspect a fearful man,
  CRESSIDA. Sweet honey Greek, tempt me no more to folly.
    She is young, and of a noble modest nature;
  Ben. Be rul'd by me: forget to think of her.
  FRENCH KING. Think we King Harry strong;
    she so prais'd- to the court I'll knock her back, foot her home
          Then shall the realm of Albion
    That you will war with God by murd'ring me?
    travels; in which my often rumination wraps me in a most humorous  
    'Tis bitter.
                       Enter CORIOLANUS
                               [Applying another asp to her arm]
    And after summer evermore succeeds
    with you. What news on the Rialto? Who is he comes here?


    Of thee, my dear one, thee, my daughter, who
    O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
    hundred too.
    Nor shall this peace sleep with her; but as when
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    I think he'll hear me. Yet to bite his lip
    She speaks this in th' infirmity of sense.

  Ham. Ay, marry, why was be sent into England?
    I put it to your care.
    First, the fair reverence of your Highness curbs me
    In this fine age were not thought flattery,
    [To Brabantio.] I did not see you; welcome, gentle signior;

Enter Polonius and Reynaldo.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. My Lord of Gloucester, I have too long

    A little water clears us of this deed.
  KING HENRY. Come hither, England's hope.
    Alas! this parting strikes poor lovers dumb.          Exeunt
  OTHELLO. Yes, you have seen Cassio and she together.
  CASSIUS. A very pleasing night to honest men.
    Things done without example, in their issue
    Hereditary ours.
    In Parthia did I take thee prisoner,
Warkworth. Before the castle
    There's no disjunction to be made but by,
  PLANTAGENET. Then say at once if I maintain'd the truth;
    The want is but to put those pow'rs in motion  
    his name.
    It is not so; thou hast misspoke, misheard;
  good cheer.

    myself; Lord Edmund Mortimer, my Lord of York, and Owen
    Noble, courageous, high, unmatchable,
    As now I reap at thy too cruel hand!
    When I am alone, why, then I am Tranio;
  He is deformed, crooked, old, and sere,
    The supreme seat, the throne majestical,
    With eyes best seeing, heaven's fiery eye,
    Of the adjacent wharfs. The city cast
    The daughter of a king, our wife, and one
    glass, by filling the one doth empty the other; for all your
    Against mine uncle.
             Exeunt, first passing over the stage in order and state,
    On that celestial harmony I go to.
    How now, my noble lord! what, all a-foot?
  PORTIA. You see me, Lord Bassanio, where I stand,

    For this will out, and then I must not stay.            Exit
    But curse the cause I cannot aid the man.

  SIR TOBY. She's a beagle true-bred, and one that adores me.
  Pedro. I' faith, lady, I think your blazon to be true; though I'll
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. O, thou didst prophesy the time would
    when your lordship this other day sent to me, I was so
    porridge after meat! I could live and die in the eyes of Troilus.
    I prithee call't. For this ungentle business,
    I will bestow him, and will answer well
  BRUTUS. Peace then, no words.
  CLEOPATRA. I have one thing more to ask him yet, good Charmian.
  CAPTAIN. With the next benefit o' th' wind.
    Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.
    We lose it not so long as we can smile.
  CORIOLANUS. I dare be sworn you were!
  Edm. Tis to be doubted, madam.
    Now I do wish it, love it, long for it,
    If they do speak our language, 'tis our will
    will not stick to say his face is a face-royal. God may finish it
    allied to your disorders. If you can separate yourself and your
    I will be thine; and, till that instant, shut
    For ever and for ever shall be yours.
    To say thou't enter friendly.
    That nightly lie in those unproper beds
    We should profane the service of the dead
  KING. No, madam; we will bring you on your way.
  Glou. It is his.
  SUFFOLK. No, gentle madam; I unworthy am
    Unquestion'd welcome and undoubted blest.
    The evil that thou causest to be done,
    Will you be prick'd in number of our friends,
    To whom you are but as a form in wax,
  BASTARD. Ha, majesty! how high thy glory tow'rs
    Where peremptory Warwick now remains.
  Lear. What, have his daughters brought him to this pass?
    Come hither purposely to poison me.
    It is her habit only that is honest,

  SEBASTIAN. Do not then walk too open.
  OLD LADY. In faith, for little England
  HERMIA. Lysander, whereto tends all this?


              And from thy justice fly.
    on you, I can hardly think you my master.
  Pol. Upon my honour-
  CLITUS. Fly, my lord, fly.
  In vowing new hate after new love bearing:

    grossness. He's in yellow stockings.
    For doing worthy vengeance on thyself
    Though the great bulk Achilles be thy guard,
    Maids, matrons, nay, the secrets of the grave,  
       upon an eagle. He throws a thunderbolt. The GHOSTS  
  TITUS. High Emperor, upon my feeble knee
    Go, I charge thee, invite them all; let in the tide
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
    The venom'd vengeance ride upon our swords,
  LUCIUS. I humbly thank him, and I thank you all.
    Come, Casca, you and I will yet ere day
  WARWICK. Then, gentle Clarence, welcome unto Warwick;
    That ever death should let life bear his name,
  Dog. True, and they are to meddle with none but the Prince's
    In such a gorgeous palace!
  FIRST WATCH. Hear you, sir?  
    Under our tents I'll play the eaves-dropper,
     In thy just proof repeals and reconciles thee.  
    And tell me, in the modesty of honour,
    with poison; I will possess him with yellowness; for the  

  LAFEU. Go thy ways, I begin to be aweary of thee; and I tell thee
    Something against our meanings, have prevented-
  Claud. No.
    Mine own, I would say; but if mine, then yours,
            Enter, below, ANTONY, borne by the guard  
                            Exeunt Othello, Lodovico, and Attendants.
  TALBOT. France, thou shalt rue this treason with thy tears,
  TROILUS. O plague and madness!
    I could set my ten commandments in your face.
    Brings in the champion Honour on my part
    And, to be short, for not appearance and
    Gives but the greater feeling to the worse.  
    Hath he that buildeth on the vulgar heart.

    search
    Hath he deserv'd to lose his birthright thus?
    As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
  THERSITES. No, but he's out a tune thus. What music will be in him
  Potions of eisel 'gainst my strong infection,
    father!
  POSTHUMUS. Very true;
  PISTOL. The horn, I say. Farewell.  
  FALSTAFF. Sirrah, you giant, what says the doctor to my water?
    And therefore, if you say no more than this,

  That heals the wound, and cures not the disgrace:
    To have her match'd; and having now provided
    That now hath seiz'd them; why, they were no worse
    With cheese and garlic in a windmill far
     Come, my good lord, away.
  Ben. Go then, for 'tis in vain
    A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
    That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
                      Enter Macbeth.

  SOMERSET. No, Plantagenet,
  IRAS. Finish, good lady; the bright day is done,
    That for my surety will refuse the boys!
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. 'Tis very true. But that time offer'd
  SUFFOLK. My lord, these faults are easy, quickly answer'd;
  But then my friend's heart let my poor heart bail,
    know, have discretion, as they say, and know the world.
    Unless he do profane, steal, or usurp.
    She comes more nearer earth than she was wont
    skill in surgery then? No. What is honour? A word. What is that
    She, in my judgment, was as fair as you;

  AGAMEMNON. With surety stronger than Achilles' an
  OLIVER. And you, fair sister.                             Exit
  LONGAVILLE. Nay, my choler is ended.
  BRUTUS. No, Messala.
    Summon'd me hither to this short-grass'd green?
    And so, good morrow to you every one.

    Till we meet Warwick with his foreign pow'r.          Exeunt
  ARTHUR. O heaven, that there were but a mote in yours,
  KEEPER. My Lord Archbishop;
    That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
    For charity itself fulfils the law,
    Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear
    And he himself confess'd but even now
    The people liberal valiant, active, wealthy;
    The full cause of our coming.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. That thou hast wronged in the time
    For such a wish! He was not born to shame.
Scene II.

    Or shall we on without apology?

  DUKE. So, then you hope of pardon from Lord Angelo?
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    And wrong the reputation of your name,
    Which here, in this most desolate isle, else falls
    For what hath broach'd this tumult but thy pride?
  QUINTUS. Father, and in that name doth nature speak-
  Claud. Let me but move one question to your daughter,
    With the sweet silent hours of marriage joys.
    And the Phoenicians go a-ducking; we
  Jul. What storm is this that blows so contrary?
    The queen of curds and cream.
  QUICKLY. Go; and we'll have a posset for't soon at night, in
    Of us must Pompey presently be sought,
  Without addition or diminishing,
    Which not to read would show the Britons cold;
    So holy writ in babes hath judgment shown,
    I will leave to appear hereafter, rather than story him in his
    And with thy lips keep in my soul a while!
    As all the world is cheered by the sun,
    Here let us breathe, and haply institute
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. And, gentle master, I receiv'd no gold;
      heads garlands of bays, and golden vizards on their
    Thus says my king: an if your father's Highness
    thus abus'd. I am no more mad than you are; make the trial of it
    I do repent. Alas, I have show'd too much
  CELIA. No, hath not? Rosalind lacks, then, the love
    Lascivious, wanton, more than well beseems
    First pay me for the nursing of thy sons,  
    I'll follow, and outstare him.
    I am not here against your father's peace;
    though peradventure some of the best of 'em were hereditary
  LUCIUS' SERVANT. Ay, and I think one business does command us all;
    I have not din'd to-day.
  IAGO.                                    Stand you awhile apart,
    By holy marriage. When, and where, and how
    Whilst such a worthy leader, wanting aid,
    To purge himself with words. Dispatch.
  BIONDELLO. I, sir? Ne'er a whit.
  MARTEXT. 'Tis no matter; ne'er a fantastical knave of them all
    For Warwick bids you all farewell, to meet in heaven.
  Rom. There is thy gold- worse poison to men's souls,
    These happen'd accidents; till when, be cheerful
    But if they will not, throw away that spirit,
    And she is dead; which nothing, but to close
    Should of another therefore be abus'd!                  Exit
    Raise up the Montagues; some others search.
    Out of his charity, who being then appointed
    sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it
    And make the silken strings delight to kiss them,
                                  Exeunt all but CAIUS and EVANS
    And once again cry 'Charge upon our foes!'

    So shall he waste his means, weary his soldiers,
    it.
    Is warm'd by th' rest and takes it thankfully.
     Couldst thou save nothing? Didst thou give 'em all?
    I will not speak a word.
    For hither will our friends repair to us.
 and then, you know,
  ESCALUS. In very good time. Speak not you to him till we call upon
    I have a suit which you must not deny me:
    So much from th' understanding of himself,
    Some certain of the noblest-minded Romans
  HECTOR. Yea, Troilus? O, well fought, my youngest brother!
    Were well deserv'd of rashness.
    need not to fear the bawds.
    And with declining head into his bosom,
    Have I heard groan and drop. Then know me not.
  FIRST GUARD. What's the noise?


    The sacred storehouse of his predecessors
    Upon our honours?
    She is my essence, and I leave to be
    And if you love me, as you say you do,
      On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,
    Upon this present action.
  SLENDER. What need you tell me that? I think so, when I

  ESCALUS. What news abroad i' th' world?
    him like the witch of Brainford.
  LUCILIUS. [Stands forth.] My lord?
  Mother. O woful time!
    [To ARIEL]  Hark what thou else shalt do me.
    of Fortune's butt'ring. Prithee, allow the wind.
  LEONTES. His princess, say you, with him?
    The stroke of death is as a lover's pinch,
    As himself pleas'd; and they were ratified
    Since I receiv'd command to do this busines
    But for your words, they rob the Hybla bees,
    good masters.                                         Exeunt
          Enter the LORDS to RICHMOND sitting in his tent
    What watchful cares do interpose themselves

    Proud northern lord, Clifford of Cumberland,
                            Enter Cassio.
    my inferiors.
  FIRST WITCH. He knows thy thought:
    As poisonous-tongu'd as handed- hath prevail'd
    If you vouchsafe me hearing and respect.
    Bid Salisbury and Warwick come to me.
    Upon some present business of the state
  GLOUCESTER.  [Aside]  So wise so young, they say, do never
  LADY GREY. I take my leave with many thousand thanks.
  FERDINAND. As I hope
                  Enter FITZWATER
  FORD. Where had you this pretty weathercock?
    With what's unreal thou coactive art,
    You understand me, sir. So shall you stay
  PHILOSTRATE. Hard-handed men that work in Athens here,
    And Helena of Athens look thou find;
    Do something mingle with our younger brown, yet ha' we
  THIRD CITIZEN. Your name, sir, truly.
  ALL. Ay, marry, will we; therefore get ye gone.
    Who to Philippi here consorted us.
    Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
  Shame hath a bastard fame, well managed;

  Dog. O villain! thou wilt be condemn'd into everlasting redemption

    So thou the garland wear'st successively.
    A leg of Rome shall not return to tell
     something saucily into the world before he was sent for, yet was  
  OBERON. This falls out better than I could devise.  
  MESSENGER. Please you, sir,
    The sons of York, thy betters in their birth,
    Unheedful vows may heedfully be broken;
    Why dost not speak? What, deaf? Not a word?
                     137

  DESDEMONA. So would not I. My love doth so approve him,
    And that most venerable man which I
           Then sing him home.
  QUICKLY. What, John Rugby? John!
     A good man's fortune may grow out at heels.
                                               [Retreat sounded]
  THISBY. And I like Helen, till the Fates me kill.
    And suffer'd him to go displeas'd away-
    Or fortune given me measure of revenge.
    have you been all this while? You a lover! An you serve me such  
    Brav'd in mine own house with a skein of thread!
    That one by one pursue; if you give way,
  THESEUS. Rather your eyes must with his judgment look.
    And straight am nothing. But whate'er I be,
    hast hang'd them, when, indeed, only for that cause they have
                          Enter SERVILIUS
    This infant warrior, in his enterprises
    In disadvantage, to abide a field  
  Jul. What satisfaction canst thou have to-night?
    Are journeying to salute the Emperor,
    They are at hand and ready to effect it.
     You stubborn ancient knave, you reverent braggart,
    As for my country I have shed my blood,

    To shed obsequious tears upon this trunk.
    The Duke of Somerset, whom he terms a traitor.
    In their own shapes; for it can never be
  North. At Berkeley Castle.
    When rank Thersites opes his mastic jaws,
  SERVANT. Sir John!
  CASSIUS. You love me not.  
  And this my hand, against my self uprear,
  AUFIDIUS. Is it not yours?
  Lear. He's a good fellow, I can tell you that.
  SIWARD. What wood is this before us?
  THURIO. Ay, but I hope, sir, that you love not here.
    The sister to my wife, this gentlewoman,
  This woman lock'd me out this day from dinner;
    And usest none in that true use indeed  
  CLOWN. Ho, the gibbet-maker? He says that he hath taken them down
  GLOUCESTER. Must you, Sir John, protect my lady here?
    marvellous hairy about the face; and I am such a tender ass, if
  DESDEMONA. Beshrew me, if I would do such a wrong
  ISABELLA. [ Within ] Peace, ho, be here!
    You shall have me assisting you in all.
  SECOND ATTENDANT. He stays upon your will.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
ACT IV. SCENE 3.
  TROILUS. Peace, you ungracious clamours! Peace, rude sounds!
    Then, forth, dear countrymen; let us deliver
SCENE:
  ENOBARBUS. Not if the small come first.
    Woo't drink up esill? eat a crocodile?
    Th' imperial metal, circling now thy head,
  Where beauty's veil doth cover every blot,

    Wearing the crown of France, till satisfied
    Wash'd it with tears? Hence from her! let her die.
    run; scorn running with thy heels.' Well, the most courageous
  VALENTINE. Nothing but my fortune.
    while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player
    Was lineal of the Lady Ermengare,
    For, by this heaven, now at our sorrows pale,
    did as you say.

    Who loves another best.
    To have a temple built you. All the swords
  CYMBELINE. Where is she, sir? How
  SECOND CITIZEN. Would you proceed especially against Caius Marcius?
  Hero. O, God defend me! How am I beset!  
  SUFFOLK. Lady, wherefore talk you so?

    Measures my husband's sorrow by his woe;
    You are a churchman, or, I'll tell you, Cardinal,
<Exit one to the ABBESS
    Jew my master. The fiend is at mine elbow and tempts me, saying
    Cry 'Courage! to the field!' And thou hast talk'd
  SHYLOCK. I have possess'd your Grace of what I purpose,
    Camillo a true subject; Leontes a jealous tyrant; his innocent
    O'er whom, in time to come, I hope to reign;
    to any proof; for thin drink doth so over-cool their blood, and
    Or turn'd an eye of doubt upon my face,
    And where the worser is predominant,
    And make him with fair Aegles break his faith,

  CLOWN. The matter, I hope, is not great, sir, begging but a beggar:
  DUKE. I'll pay thy pleasure, then.
    There sleeps Titania sometime of the night,
                        Enter third DRAWER
    That his contempt shall not be bruising to you
    To most ignoble stooping.
    Or more than any living man could bear.
    I have, as when the sun doth light a storm,
  CAESAR. Possess it, I'll make answer.
    Can task the free breath of a sacred king?
    in Datchet Mead; quickly, come.
  FIRST LORD. Especially he hath incurred the everlasting displeasure
    For I myself have many tears to wash
    That promise noble service; and they come
    I know you have determin'd to bestow her
  As an unperfect actor on the stage,
    Because we thought ourself thy lawful King;
    The housekeeper, the hunter, every one
    So till the judgment that your self arise,
    Whereof by parcels she had something heard,
                                              Pindarus descends.
    wrought by my pity, it should not be so with him.
          Enter ROSALIND, CELIA, and CORIN, at a distance
    And doth it give me such a sight as this?
Friar Laurence's cell.
    How they affect the house and claim of York.
    With as big heart as thou. Do as thou list.
    From fairies and the tempters of the night
    How far'st thou, mirror of all martial men?
    And on my head did set the diadem.
  LUCETTA. Nothing concerning me.
    Of a rude stream, that must for ever hide me.
    Repentance and with his bad legs falls into the cinque-pace
    That face to face and royal eye to eye
    Digest this letter of the Cardinal's?

  MARCIUS. Sir, it is;

  CAMILLO. I would not be a stander-by to hear
    There shall your swords and lances arbitrate
     Thine honour from thy suffering; that not know'st
  GRATIANO. In christ'ning shalt thou have two god-fathers;
    Most rich in Timon's nod.
    And both shall cease, without your remedy.  
  KING. Is it good morrow, lords?
    And dangerous success of bloody wars,
    Civility not seen from other, valour
ACT I. SCENE 1

    guilt of premeditated and contrived murder; some, of beguiling
    Or fill up chronicles in time to come,
    Without perdition, and loss assume all reason
    O' th' Rolls, and the King's secretary; further, sir,
  JAQUES. Nay, I care not for their names; they owe me nothing. Will

    The courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword,
    What shall become of me?  
    And undertake the teaching of the maid-
    And try your hap against the Irishmen?
    Between these woolly breeders in the act,
      'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to
  COUNTESS. Nor I your mother?
  POLIXENES. Very sooth, to-morrow.
     father are not fit for your beholding. Advise the Duke where you
  To thee I send this written embassage
    Than boys pursuing summer butterflies,
  Fool. Come not in here, nuncle, here's a spirit. Help me, help me!
  MARIA. Thou mightst have done this without thy beard and gown: he  
                 Enter Macbeth and Banquo.
France. The English camp at Agincourt

    How full of valour did he bear himself
    crown
    She hath the stones upon her and the ducats.'
    This jarring discord of nobility,
    Thy penitent reform'd; but we have been
    And find the welcome of a noble foe.
    We'll yoke together, like a double shadow
  OBERON.    Now, until the break of day,
    To the King's danger. Presently the Duke
    Touching her flight.                   [Presenting a letter]
    Boy, let me see the writing.
  YORK. Little.
    Either of King or Council, when you went  
    And not our streets with war!
    away your child on a fool, and a physician? Look on
  WARWICK. Away, away! Once more, sweet lords, farewell.


                     his soldiers, TALBOT
    You orphan heirs of fixed destiny,
    is no staying. In despite of the devils and hell, have through

    The rather for I earnestly beseech,
    so young and so villainous this day living. I speak but brotherly
    The other Edward dead, to quit my Edward;

    The name of hardiness and policy.
    with ear'? Why, it is affectations.
     My lady is bespoke.
    thus:

    One rich enough to be Petruchio's wife,
    One vial full of Edward's sacred blood,  

    As had he been incorps'd and demi-natur'd
  AARON. That which thou canst not undo.
  PETRUCHIO. Where be these knaves? What, no man at door
    O thou vile king,
      Item: That the duchy of Anjou and the county of Maine shall be
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  SIMPCOX. Alas, master, I know not.
    Yet, if that quarrel, fortune, do divorce  
    Pronounce a sentence on your brother's life;
                                          Exeunt BOYET and MARIA
  IACHIMO. First, her bedchamber,
  HOST. What duke should that be comes so secretly? I hear

    Than is the doating title of a mother;
  AGRIPPA. Give me leave, Caesar.
    To see the battle. Hector, whose patience

    The unstooping firmness of my upright soul.
    But yet 'tis one.
     Your servant Kent. Where is your servant Caius?
    Yet did I purpose as they do entreat;
    Was woe enough, if it had ended there;
    tapster. Are you not? Come, tell me true; it shall be the better
    To murther, murther our solemnity?
    In haste post-haste are come to join with you;
    Did you but know the city's usuries,
  SERVINGMAN. An hour before I came, the Duchess died.
    Forsworn my company and rail'd at me,
    Let me embrace thee in my weary arms.
    he durst not give me the Lie Direct; and so we measur'd swords
    Making the hard way sweet and delectable.
  VALENTINE. That's on some shallow story of deep love:

    I will to Venice; Sunday comes apace;

    him with any further revenge?
  ROSALIND. But are you so much in love as your rhymes speak?
    Which therein works a miracle in nature,
  FALSTAFF. No more, Pistol; I would not have you go off here.
  RODERIGO. Sir, I will answer anything. But, I beseech you,
  PROVOST
    For I am loath to break our country's laws.
  TAMORA. Saucy controller of my private steps!
    Being nothing like the noble Duke my father.
    If not, I'll use the advantage of my power
    it. I will only be bold with Benedick for his company; for, from
    O cousin, cousin!
    And I have seen thee pause and take thy breath,
    His rage can do on me. You must be gone;
    To have his princely paws par'd all away.
     Shall not be a maid long, unless things be cut shorter
    And to transport him in the mind he is
                Atone together.
    With oaths kept waking, and with brawling fed;
    And more than carefully it us concerns
    loved you.
    As stairs of sand, wear yet upon their chins
    Here's to your ladyship; and pledge it, madam,
     Have in thy reverence made!  
    Or stones, whose rate are either rich or poor
    father took much delight in. He is about the house.
    This is some token from a newer friend.
  ISABELLA. Alas! Alas!
    In your fair minds let this acceptance take.            Exit
    Shall stain your brother. Make your soonest haste;
  BEROWNE. By heaven, all dry-beaten with pure scoff!
Enter corpse of KING HENRY THE SIXTH, with halberds to guard it;
    The leaf of eglantine, whom not to slander,  
    Or, with an outstretch'd throat, I'll tell the world aloud
    This treasure of an oyster; at whose foot,
    I beg cold comfort; and you are so strait
    When I shall turn the business of my soul
    throat.
                             SCENE 6.
    In place of greater state. I'll meet you in the valleys.
     The sea, with such a storm as his bare head  
    With men of courage and with means defendant;

    brother, and as much as in him lies, mines my gentility with my
  HELENA. Yet, I pray you:
    But march to London with our soldiers?  
  FIRST OUTLAW. Whence came you?
    My spritely brethren, I propend to you
  CASSIO. Why, very well then; you must not think then that I am
DUKE. Speak freely, Syracusian, what thou wilt.
    Sophy.
    Her people out upon her; and Antony,
      Repugnant to command. Unequal match'd,


  DESDEMONA. And yet I fear you, for you are fatal then
  CASSIUS. I an itching palm?
    This virtue and this moral discipline,
    All cause unborn, could never be the native

  Claud. Then down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs, beats her
     An honest mind and plain- he must speak truth!
    Nor pluck it from his finger for the wealth
  BAPTISTA. And I to sound the depth of this knavery.       Exit  
    From thee to die were torture more than death.  
    To doubt the equivocation of the fiend
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    And flowing o'er with arts and exercise.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    trust in, she your jewel, this your jewel, and my gold are yours-
    We'll not be nice; take hands. We will not dance.
    Dashing the garment of this peace, aboded
  PRIEST. I'll wait upon your lordship.
    What news, Aeneas, from the field to-day?
    Proclaim it, Provost, round about the city,
    Bifold authority! where reason can revolt
  SICINIUS. We charge you that you have contriv'd to take
    Else, farewell Talbot, France, and England's honour.
    And time, that takes survey of all the world,
    Were I a man, a duke, and next of blood,
  Doug. Another king? They grow like Hydra's heads.
    A whole armado of convicted sail
    And ye choice spirits that admonish me
    Upon whose faith and honour I repose.

    Than he that dies and lives by bloody drops?
  FIRST MURTHERER. Though our lives-
    Nathaniel, Joseph, Nicholas, Philip, Walter, Sugarsop, and the
    I am commanded, with your leave and favour,
    Which action's self was tongue to. All was royal:
                                            Exeunt TROILUS and AENEAS

  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Thou shalt know her, fellow, by the rest that
  FALSTAFF. Go fetch me a quart of sack; put a toast in 't.
    For testimony of her foul proceedings.
    He doth unfasten so and shake a friend.
  SHYLOCK. Three thousand ducats for three months, and Antonio bound.
    You have desire to purchase; and your store,
    Were in six parts, and every part a ducat,
    Tell me, Apollo, for thy Daphne's love,
A COURTEZAN
    [To NESTOR] And, thou most reverend, for thy stretch'd-out life,
  Rom. Not I; unless the breath of heartsick groans,  
  PRINCE OF MOROCCO. Nor will not; come, bring me unto my chance.
  CAPTAIN. Whither away, Sir John Fastolfe, in such haste?
  NATHANIEL. A title to Phoebe, to Luna, to the moon.
    fool, I am not mad!' But do you remember- 'Madam, why laugh you
  WARWICK. In Warwickshire I have true-hearted friends,
  MAYOR. Had he done so?
  GAUNT. Thy grief is but thy absence for a time.
    Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
  The earth can yield me but a common grave,

  NATHANIEL. A rare talent!
    Spoke your deservings like a chronicle;
    I'll in.
    But certain issue strokes must arbitrate.
    And bear with mildness my misfortune's cross;
    Is nothing kin to foul redemption.
    And yet I would not sleep. Merciful powers,
     Advise yourself.

    You were advis'd his flesh was capable
    More than a spinster; unless the bookish theoric,

    And this shall free thee from this present shame,

<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    choice is rather to have my hat than my heart, I will practise
         Who is Silvia? What is she,
  Pol. Farewell!

  ELINOR. Look'st thou pale, France? Do not let go thy hand.
    To be your servant.
    The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve.
    Of dull Octavia. Shall they hoist me up,
                                                  [Gazes on her]
    which is baser, guided by her foot, which is basest, doth tread.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Heavens grant that Warwick's words bewitch him not!

    Canst thou demise to any child of mine?
    I hold him but a fool that will endanger
    your quiet o'erposting that action.
    Above the border of this horizon,
    And so am come abroad to see the world.  

<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    And till she stoop she must not be full-gorg'd,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
SCENE 4.
  
    Lord Marshal, command our officers-at-arms
  TRANIO. He hath some meaning in his mad attire.
    That proof is call'd impossibility.
  As I all other in all worths surmount.
    tales of the Duke.
          Fathers that wear rags
    And all Europa shall rejoice at thee,
  HERMIA. O spite! too old to be engag'd to young.
  GLOUCESTER. Why, what a peevish fool was that of Crete
    Is not this something more than fantasy?
    That no man hath recourse to her by night.
    Saying 'What lack you?' and 'Where lies your grief?'
  Harsh, featureless, and rude, barrenly perish:
    T' avoid the the the censures of the carping world.  
  O how shall summer's honey breath hold out,
  SALISBURY. Now, by my sword, well hast thou fought to-day!
  ALL. The music, ho!
DUKE. Discover how, and thou shalt find me just.
    I think Camillo?
    Gracing the scroll that tells of this war's loss  
  LADY GREY. 'Twill grieve your Grace my sons should call you father.
     And frustrate his proud will.
    So pale did shine the moon on Pyramus
    Who now is girdled with a waist of iron
    When she, poor hen, fond of no second brood,
  Leon. He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much glad of it.
    Should without issue die, he'll carry it so
    And darkness be the burier of the dead!
  SIWARD. He's worth no more:
    She looks upon them with a threat'ning eye.
                       France. Plains in Anjou
  SATURNINUS, son to the late Emperor of Rome, afterwards Emperor
    Like to a bowl upon a subtle ground,
    jewel about the neck of it; the letters of Antigonus found with
    That highly may advantage thee to hear;
  CORIOLANUS. That I'll straight do, and, knowing myself again,
    Were present when she finish'd.
    And simpler than the infancy of truth.
    Rome's royal mistress, mistress of my heart,
    To punish me for what you make me do
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  "That horse his mettle from his rider takes:
  Ros. To what end, my lord?
    heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to th' court? for, by my
    To quicken your increase I will beget
                   Enter THERSITES
  ANTONY. Thou art a soldier only. Speak no more.  
    That makes the Senate ugly.
    Have slime upon them, such as th' aspic leaves  
    My honour would not let ingratitude
  If every one knows us, and we know none,
    Expect your Highness' doom of life or death.
    If it be so to do good service, never

    Here can I sit alone, unseen of any,
    To bring false generations. They are co-heirs;
  Ham. Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You
    If there be one among the fair'st of Greece
    Proud Cleopatra when she met her Roman
    But not approach'd.
    Did shake down mellow fruit. You have made fair work!
    A bump as big as a young cock'rel's stone;
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    As long a term as yet we have to live,

    The broken rancour of your high-swol'n hearts,
    Will I apply that treats of happiness
    Our king, being ready to leap out of himself for joy of his found
    the puppets dallying.
    By violent swiftness that which we run at,
    But, heaven be thank'd, it is but voluntary.
  As on the finger of a throned queen,
  When I have seen such interchange of State,
  'Well could he ride, and often men would say,  
    An ordinary groom is for such payment.
  Gent. Most sure and vulgar. Every one hears that

  FOURTH CITIZEN. It is no matter, his name's Cinna. Pluck but his
    Proportion'd as one's thought would wish a man-
  OTHELLO. Say you?
    King Henry the Fifth, too famous to live long!
    Presume not on thy heart when mine is slain,
    Yet seek my father's love; still seek it, sir.
    Then which way shall I find Revenge's cave?
    In all his own desires; nay, let him choose
  TYRREL. The chaplain of the Tower hath buried them;
  HELENA. And I am sick when I look not on you.
  Ben. Soft! I will go along.
    For you or any; how far I have proceeded,
  PANDARUS. Thou must be gone, wench, thou must be gone; thou art
    Which by my Lord of Winchester we mean
      As low as to the fiends!
  POLIXENES. She dances featly.
    For though they cannot greatly sting to hurt,
  PARIS. There is no help;
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
     And fire us hence like foxes. Wipe thine eyes.
                           Enter Mother.
  CAMPEIUS. They will not stick to say you envied him
    And bless the good remainders of the court!
    Discover you abroad?
    So much as but to prop him?
    Me seemeth good that, with some little train,
    And this is Edward's wife, that monstrous witch,
    The Roman legions, all from Gallia drawn,

    For well I wot that Henry is no soldier.
SCENE II.
                          Enter a POST
    As my young mistress' dog. Now my sick fool Roderigo,
  ARTHUR. Good morrow, Hubert.
and other FAIRIES attending;
    To let this canker of our nature come
    Than history can pattern, though devis'd
    What think'st thou-will our friends prove all true?
    Which robs my tongue from breathing native breath?
  So great a charge from thine own custody?
    A falcon towering in her pride of place
  PROVOST. I know them both.
    I mean to take possession of my right.
    And tapers burn so bright, and everything
  CLOTEN. 'His garments'! Now the devil-
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    between Master Abraham and Mistress Anne Page.

  FORD. There is a gentlewoman in this town, her husband's
    Against the French that met them in their bent,
    From Antony win Cleopatra. Promise,
    Let not my jealousies be your dishonors,
  I see by you I am a sweet-fac'd youth.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    With franker spirit. Therefore, as I am bound,
  PISTOL. 'Tis 'semper idem' for 'obsque hoc nihil est.' 'Tis all in
    Draws on apace; four happy days bring in

    What nearer debt in all humanity
    'O, bless my brother!' Husband win, win brother,

    Even such, they say, as stand in narrow lanes
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. They give their greeting to the citadel;
  HERMIONE. I had thought, sir, to have held my peace until
    How fain, like Pilate, would I wash my hands
London. An apartment of the Prince's.
    their mastiffs are of unmatchable courage.
    With them they think on? Things without all remedy
  Your monument shall be my gentle verse,
    Deserved this so dishonour'd rub, laid falsely
  Ham. The body is with the King, but the King is not with the body.
    Go drag the villain hither by the hair;
    Thou tremblest; and the whiteness in thy cheek
  2. Watch. We will rather sleep than talk. We know what belongs to
    Oft have I seen the haughty Cardinal-
    No, your poor disposer's sick.
    To have thee with thy lips to stop my mouth;
    Show'd like a stubble land at harvest home.
    with fire any time this two-and-thirty years. God reward me for
    Yet never have you tasted our reward,
    But I will find him when he lies asleep,
    Thus contumeliously should break the peace!
    She stripp'd it from her arm; I see her yet;
  As truth and beauty shall together thrive
  SATURNINUS. Despiteful and intolerable wrongs!
  CLOWN. How much money must I have?
  MALVOLIO. M- But then there is no consonancy in the sequel; that
    A lullaby too rough; I never saw
  Even of five hundred courses of the sun,
  Claud. You must hang it first and draw it afterwards.
  FLORIZEL. I am bound to you.
    So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
          them, playing upon his truncheon like a fife.  
  SUFFOLK.  [Aside to NORFOLK]  Not to speak of!
    Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
    But something may be done that we will not;
    To view the field in safety, and dispose
  Find no determination, then you were
    Her father. I'll do something-                          Exit
     My reason all the same; and they are ready
  CARDINAL. My lord, you shall o'errule my mind for once.
  CLOTEN. Let's see't. I will pursue her
  BIONDELLO. I cannot tell, except they are busied about a

  ORLANDO. Speak you so gently? Pardon me, I pray you;
    whoreson, impudent, emboss'd rascal, if there were anything in
    Speak, Clifford, dost thou know who speaks to thee?
    If Lewis by your assistance win the day.
    Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen,
  PANDARUS. They laugh'd not so much at the hair as at his pretty
  MARSHAL. Sound trumpets; and set forward, combatants.
    To see now how a jest shall come about!
    We coursed him at the heels and had a purpose
  CRESSIDA. Here comes more.
    say't, is an honest exceeding poor man, and, God be thanked, well
    Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve,
  PANDARUS. Good boy, tell him I come.                       Exit Boy  

            The plain-song cuckoo grey,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Your father's head, which Clifford placed there;
                     36  
    I am not well; send the deed after me
    This diamond was my mother's; take it, heart;
                [The two companies separate and place themselves
  Corn. No more perchance does mine, or his, or hers.
    And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
    If not, the end of life cancels all bands,
    Most smiling, smooth, detested parasites,
  POMPEY. Where have you this? 'Tis false.
    And ne'er was Agamemmon's brother wrong'd  
    Nay, task me to my word; approve me, lord.
    further trade with us?
    And this the hand that slew thy brother Rutland;
  LEONARDO. My best endeavours shall be done herein.
    Humbly to kiss your hand, and with my tongue

    Hath in eternal darkness folded up.
    If 'gainst yourself you be incens'd, we'll put you-
    If I do find him fit, I'll move your suit,
Enter ORLANDO, with a paper
    kings' entreaties, a mother should not sell him an hour from her
    And brought to yoke the enemies of Rome.
  ULYSSES. May worthy Troilus be half-attach'd
  MOTH. My father's wit my mother's tongue assist me!
    Well, he may sleep in security; for he hath the horn of
    Are not inherited. Then, dear countryman,
    I a sheep?
    As for the Duke of York, this late complaint
    That all the Greeks begin to worship Ajax,
    For I am much asham'd of my exchange;

    That thou art so inhuman- 'twill not prove so.  
    Th' abuse of distance, force a play.
    Where the quick freshes are.
  COMINIUS. You have fought together?
    Who 'twas that cut thy tongue and ravish'd thee.
  BELARIUS. [To IMOGEN] You are not well. Remain here in the cave;
  KING. Well, well, my lords, respect him;  
      matter;
  ROMAN. I shall between this and supper tell you most strange things
  GLOUCESTER. Meantime, God grants that I have need of you.
    There is some soul of goodness in things evil,
    Move them no more by crossing their high will.
  BERTRAM. A heaven on earth I have won by wooing thee.
  SATURNINUS. Die, frantic wretch, for this accursed deed!
    Led in the hand of her kind aunt of Gloucester?
           Tom will make them weep and wail;
    that drum or another, or 'hic jacet.'
    It is to jet upon a prince's right?
     Thou wilt o'ertake us hence a mile or twain
    Than is the full-wing'd eagle. O, this life
  ANTONY. May I never
    And threw her sun-expelling mask away,
    The King shall be contented. Must he lose
  1. Car. Poor fellow never joyed since the price of oats rose. It
  TITUS. Speak thou no more, if all the rest will speed.
    Arthur Plantagenet, lays most lawful claim
           Enter the MAYOR OF SAINT ALBANS and his brethren,
    For they are harsh, untuneable, and bad.
SCENE II.
    And with him there lie mudded.                          Exit
  Holds in perfection but a little moment.
  CLIFFORD. Here burns my candle out; ay, here it dies,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    You laugh when boys or women tell their dreams;
Enter the LORD CHAMBERLAIN reading this letter
    With meditations lawful?
  Glou. O, let me kiss that hand!
    Roderigo? No- yes, sure. O heaven! Roderigo.
    The even virtue of our enterprise,  
    thee, rather than have these off.
    I something fear my father's wrath, but nothing-
Enter Worcester and Sir Richard Vernon.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  Oph. O, help him, you sweet heavens!

    When it should move ye to attend me most,
  FLUTE. What is Thisby? A wand'ring knight?
    And with her golden hand hath pluck'd on France
    Shall profit thee, and much enrich thy book.
  EDWARD. I hear their drums. Let's set our men in order,
  BARDOLPH. An you do not make him be hang'd among you, the gallows
  Which though myself would gladly have embrac'd,
           And welcome merry Shrove-tide.
    That did renew old AEson.
  Ham. 'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.-
    top of the mountain?
  THIRD SERVANT. Pray you, poor gentleman, take up some other
  Poisons more deadly than a mad dog's tooth.
  MARCUS. Pardon me, sir; it was a black ill-favour'd fly,
  FENTON. What news? How does pretty Mistress Anne?
    To wrong my friend, I shall be much forsworn;
  PROTEUS. Go, get thee hence and find my dog again,
  Ben. Why dost thou stay?
    Upon the love you bear me, get you in.
    With reverend fathers and well learned bishops.

  HOSTESS. Yea, good Master Snare; I have ent'red him and all.
  KING HENRY. Come, go we in procession to the village;
    Now could I, Casca, name to thee a man
  OLIVIA. Yet come again; for thou perhaps mayst move
  LAVINIA. Sweet lords, entreat her hear me but a word.
    Let him make treble satisfaction.
    And rouse him at the name of Crispian.
    The hearts of men, they must perforce have melted,
    leek? There is not enough leek to swear by.
    And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
  OTHELLO. Soft you; a word or two before you go.
    How now, there!
    As: not to see a woman in that term,  
  Citizen. Up, sir, go with me.
    Attend us through the city.
    Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
    Than but once think this place becomes thee not.

  KING. This ring was mine, I gave it his first wife.
    Your company at dinner.
    When we have laugh'd to see the sails conceive,
    That thought her like her seeming. It had been vicious

    His pettish lunes, his ebbs, his flows, as if
    To call a present court of Parliament.
    question, hoping to be the wiser by your answer. I pray you, sir,
  SOMERSET. But he's deceiv'd; we are in readiness.
    of the best that is. In a retreat he outruns any lackey: marry,
    The unity and married calm of states

    But yet we want a colour for his death.

    By both your wills.
    Esteem him as a lamb, being compared
    pleases me, for fault of a better, to call my friend- I could be
    on't.
     But that I told him the revenging gods
  Lear. If thou wilt weep my fortunes, take my eyes.
  THISBY. I kiss the wall's hole, not your lips at all.
  FIRST SENATOR. Not in this heat, sir, now.
  LYSANDER. Proceed, Moon.




    To think your father, by some accident,
     With such a number. What, must I come to you
    Your mightiness on both parts best can witness.
  ROSALIND. I'll have no father, if you be not he;
  Sinks down to death, oppressed with melancholy.
    Holla, within!
  HOSTESS. I' faith, sweetheart, methinks now you are in an excellent
    For we were subjects but while you were king.
     business in hand.
    thine own knee?
    count.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Of dark forgetfulness and deep oblivion.
  SIR TOBY. Here's an overweening rogue!
    To kiss these lips, I will appear in blood.
LUCIANA. It is a fault that springeth from your eye.
  Lear. Now, my friendly knave, I thank thee. There's earnest of thy  
  KING HENRY. Call Buckingham, and bid him arm himself.
    Even now, we heard a hollow burst of bellowing

  TROILUS. Doth that grieve thee? O withered truth!
  CLIFFORD. I will not bandy with thee word for word,
  IRAS. I'll never see't, for I am sure mine nails
    Than they are to their virtues, which is nothing.
    Yet such is now the Duke's condition
and CALCHAS
    And let it keep one shape till custom make it
  
    On whom I may confer what I have got.

    And being not done, where doing tends to ill,
    Which had you rather- that the most just law
           'Your (wife, so I would say) affectionate servant,
    And pass my daughter a sufficient dower,
     dearth, dissolutions of ancient amities; divisions in state,
    'Twas pitiful, 'twas wondrous pitiful.
  PORTIA. Is this true, Nerissa?
    and hang me up at the door of a brothel house for the sign of
    Some comfort, nurse.
  A LAWYER
  PETRUCHIO. Well, I say no; and therefore, for assurance,
  MAECENAS. Eight wild boars roasted whole at a breakfast, and but
  And die as fast as they see others grow,
      hate thee,
    France being ours, we'll bend it to our awe,
    Verbatim to rehearse the method of my pen.
    Though forfeiters you cast in prison, yet
  THIRD DRAWER. Dispatch! The room where they supp'd is too hot;
    Can make you greater than the Queen of Goths.
    then Pharaoh's lean kine are to be loved. No, my good lord.
    Than my faint means would grant continuance;
    She never knew harm-doing-O, now, after
    As in a looking-glass; and then to sigh, as 'twere
    Although by his sight his sin be multiplied.
    The knife that made it.
    fellow.

  POINS. And look whether the fiery Trigon, his man, be not lisping
  Nurse. Your mother.
    length apiece; by an abstract of success: I have congied with the
    good, i' faith. I sent thee sixpence for thy leman; hadst it?
    Cassio's a proper man. Let me see now-
    'Tis marvel- but that you are but newly come,
    not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all
    Not fearing death nor shrinking for distress,
  SIR TOBY. [Sings] Farewell, dear heart, since I must needs be gone.
    'His meanest garment'!
  Mer. You are a lover. Borrow Cupid's wings
    I come to bring him sleep. 'Tis such as you,
    That they are not the first of fortune's slaves,
  POMPEY. Your hostages I have, so have you mine;
    treaty.- You and I have known, sir.
    Good arms, strong joints, true swords; and, Jove's accord,
  ANGELO. O my dread lord,
    The oldest sins the newest kind of ways?
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Against the thing I say. Answer to this:
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    If you do wrongfully seize Hereford's rights,
  BERTRAM. Nothing of me, has 'a?
  PANDARUS. Amen. Whereupon I will show you a chamber
    And he her dieter.
  BANQUO. My lord, I will not.
    Or any of my brothers of the state,
    That were some spite; my invocation
    And by him do my duties to the Senate.
    Then will I raise aloft the milk-white rose,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
                         his forces
      daughter-
    your Grace
    said a gown.
  HUBERT. Stand back, Lord Salisbury, stand back, I say;
    What 'twere to lose it and be miserable!
    The trumpets, sackbuts, psalteries, and fifes,
    I should do thus.                                 [Flourish]

  Dog. Come hither, neighbour Seacoal. God hath bless'd you with a

    Makes fear'd and talk'd of more than seen- your son
  MENENIUS. Good faith, I'll prove him,
  WOLSEY. How much, methinks, I could despise this man,
  HOLOFERNES. I do, sans question.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  PISTOL. What are his words?
  PANTHINO. In thy tail!
  DUKE. You are pardon'd, Isabel.
    Go, Biondello, bid your mistress come to me.
  CLOTEN. I will inform your father.
  Doug. Know then my name is Douglas,
  Ros. Why, then your ambition makes it one. 'Tis too narrow for your
    All this the world well knows yet none knows well,  
      Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods,  
  TITUS. Thanks, gentle Tribune, noble brother Marcus.
    A modern ecstasy. The dead man's knell
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  That is so proud thy service to despise,
  Balth. The best I can, my lord.
    The enemies of Caesar shall say this:
  Of more delight than hawks and horses be:
  Wilt thou whose will is large and spacious,
ACT V. SCENE 1.
  OTHELLO. The handkerchief!
    Bareheaded plodded by my foot-cloth mule,  
    Whom heavens in justice, both on her and hers,
    [To the PAINTER] You have work for me; there's payment; hence!
    I should have lost the worth of it in gold.

  RUGBY. He is wise, sir; he knew your worship would kill
  POSTHUMUS. No swearing.
    Fool, I will go with you to Lord Timon's.
    We'll see your trinkets here all forthcoming.
  VALENTINE. O my dear Silvia! Hapless Valentine!
                                                        [Kneels]
  PLANTAGENET. Tut, tut, here is a mannerly forbearance:
    I shall be glad to learn of noble men.
  Old Man. 'Tis poor mad Tom.
  King. [rises] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below.
    your flesh and blood obey it.
    supple and courteous to the people, bonneted, without any further
with the HEADSMAN and other OFFICERS
  PORTIA. In terms of choice I am not solely led
  SIR TOBY. That's all one; has hurt me, and there's th' end on't.
    In every borough as we pass along;
  Bene. How now? interjections? Why then, some be of laughing, as,
    As to set dogs on sheep- will be his fire
    You might have heard it else proclaim'd about.
              Of these most strange events.
  IAGO. Even he, sir. Did you know him?
    I am a soldier and unapt to weep
    thou to this tune, matter, and method? Is't not drown'd i' th'
                                       Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER  
  I ne'er saw Syracuse in my life.
      So far from cheer and from your former state.
  CHARLES. So we be rid of them, do with them what thou
                       Enter a serving-man  
  And therefore have I slept in your report,
  ENOBARBUS. And the business you have broach'd here cannot be
    Happier is he that has no friend to feed
    If wisdom be in suffering. O my lords,
  SHALLOW. Sir, I thank you; by yea and no, I do.
  PROCULEIUS,    "    "   "
    Is this most constant wife, who even now
  Poins. O, Glendower.
  VALENTINE. It will be light, my lord, that you may bear it
    He that stirs next to carve for his own rage
  Beat. No, sure, my lord, my mother cried; but then there was a star
    Kin to Jove's thunder, so surpris'd my sense
    Is now become a god, and Cassius is
    For she is sweeter than perfume itself

     But being widow, and my Gloucester with her,
  WARWICK. Now, by my father's badge, old Nevil's crest,
    Our mettle is bred out, and they will give
  KING. Thou speak'st it falsely, as I love mine honour;
    If haply won, perhaps a hapless gain;
    And top of sovereignty?
  DUKE. You are pleasant, sir, and speak apace.
    I never saw before. Great-bellied women,
  JULIA. Pray you, where lies Sir Proteus?
  BRUTUS. There's no more to be said, but he is banish'd,
    You may have every day enough of Hector,
    and my name is Elbow; I do lean upon justice, sir, and do bring
    As hateful as Cocytus' misty mouth.
    And ye that on the sands with printless foot
    Make Cressid's name the very crown of falsehood,
    foolishly lost at a game of tick-tack. I'll to her.
  KING RICHARD. Cousin, farewell; and, uncle, bid him so.
  ESCALUS. My lord, I am more amaz'd at his dishonour
    And happier much by his affliction made.
    Then tell me what makes he upon the seas.
    To glean the broken ears after the man
    Straight let us seek, or straight we shall be sought;
  ULYSSES. Achilles will not to the field to-morrow.
    Let liberty make use of; space enough
    Is he dispatch'd?
    For who love I so much? And now who knows  
    you.
    The next is this: King John hath reconcil'd
    And cancel these cold bonds. O Imogen!
    That now I aim at.
    I had had to have made new liveries, I would have bestowed the
    Retorts it. Romeo he cries aloud,
    The land is burning; Percy stands on high;
    By losing of our prayers.
    The will of heaven be done, and the King's pleasure
    And say in thunder 'Achilles go to him.'
    I'll slay more gazers than the basilisk;
  DUKE. Peace be with you!            Exeunt ESCALUS and PROVOST
    winking.
    against any man's metaphor. Prithee, get thee further.
  JUNO
    And faintly through a rusty beaver peeps.
    That by a pace goes backward, with a purpose
  CORIOLANUS. The word is 'mildly.' Pray you let us go.  
    The head of Cade, whom I in combat slew.
    To force him after; in whose company
    Tell them your feats; whilst they with joyful tears
    Minions of the Moon; and let men say we be men of good
    Given Hydra here to choose an officer
  SOMERSET. All health unto my gracious sovereign!
  Nurse. Ah, mocker! that's the dog's name. R is for the- No; I know
  PUCELLE. Brave Burgundy, undoubted hope of France!
    for the goose.
    These wrongs unspeakable, past patience,
  CORIOLANUS. I have deserv'd no better entertainment
    Is't not the tenour of his oracle,
  FIRST KEEPER. My lord, your loving nephew now is come.  
  OTHELLO.                    Had it pleased heaven
    But that you have your father's bosom there
    You have not dar'd to break the holy seal
    In my good brother's fault. I know not why
                             Enter VIOLA

    A mad-cap ruffian and a swearing Jack,
    He shall not hear thee; or from Caesar's camp
    Creep in our ears; soft stillness and the night
  Dog. Why then, take no note of him, but let him go, and presently
    This ring, you say, was yours?
    Being strong on both sides, are equivocal.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Our point of second meeting. Do you find
    Wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire!
    Th' effects of his fond jealousies so grieving  
    to call a prince's brother villain.
    If then we shall shake off our slavish yoke,
  FORD. Ay, and an ox too; both the proofs are extant.

  MESSENGER. 'Tell him' quoth she 'my mourning weeds are done,
  BAPTISTA. When will he be here?
    He, but a Duke, would have his son a king,
  NYM. Good morrow, Lieutenant Bardolph.
    Of their own choice. One's Junius Brutus-
    Than is her custom. It is still her use
    For Brutus is an honorable man;
    Vines with clust'ring bunches growing,
  PROTEUS. What said she? Nothing?
    Speak it again, and even with the word
  IACHIMO. I'll be sworn-
    Shall we go throw away our coats of steel
SCENE III.

  Fool. I marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are. They'll have me
    Hoping it was but an effect of humor,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Inhuman traitors, you constrain'd and forc'd.  
  SIR TOBY. Prithee hold thy peace; this is not the way. Do you not
    respected with her, or she with me, let not your worship think me
    Of capital treason we arrest you here.
    come every day to my cote and woo me.
  I love to hear her speak, yet well I know,
    If Gloucester be displac'd, he'll be Protector.
    Come on, sit down; come on, and do your best
    Wast shot at with fair eyes, to be the mark
    And if it please you, so; if not, why, so.
    Whereby they live. And though that all at once

COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    your arms cross'd on your thin-belly doublet, like a rabbit on a
    Let gallows gape for dog; let man go free,
    Canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile,
    And will not be uplifted. But remember-
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE

    angry?
  To make of him a formal man again.
    He owes nine thousand; besides my former sum,
  GRATIANO. What is the matter?
  ARMADO. What wilt thou prove?
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    recreants and dastards, and delight to live in slavery to the
  Poins. Ay, ay, he said four.
  ESCALUS. Go, away with her to prison.
    But most himself, if he could see his shame.
    And my estate deserves an heir more rais'd
  Beauty no pencil, beauty's truth to lay:
    Was theme for you; you were the word of war.
    The sharded beetle in a safer hold
    With age and alt'ring rheums? Can he speak, hear,
  ELINOR. Son, list to this conjunction, make this match;
    thy purse. If thou wilt needs damn thyself, do it a more delicate
    We bend to that the working of the heart;  

    Lorenzo and his amorous Jessica;
    sick.
    To all the Duke of Norfolk's signiories,
    of his act.
              But took me in my throes,
    I mean Hortensio is afeard of you.
    The darnel, hemlock, and rank fumitory,
    malapert blood from you. [Draws]



    Though fools at home condemn 'em.
    Give me thy hand.
    Of prisoners' ransom, and of soldiers slain,
    Suppose that I am now my father's mouth;
    To seem like him: so that in speech, in gait,
    Where shame doth harbour, even in Mowbray's face.
    Bear with my weakness; my old brain is troubled;
    continuing, this mystery remained undiscover'd. But 'tis all one
    Ere you depart, and thanks to stay and eat it.
                                                    Exit servant
            That could stand up his parallel,
    The melancholy Jaques grieves at that;
    I'll call for pen and ink, and write my mind.
  SPEED. Thou liest; I can.
    semi-circled farthingale. I see what thou wert, if Fortune
                          Re-enter ARMADO
  Which should transport me farthest from your sight.
            'If the scorn of your bright eyne
    And in conclusion wins the King from her
    his wife's frailty, yet I cannot put off my opinion so
  CAMILLO. Who does her?
  ROGER BOLINGBROKE, a conjurer
    For then both parties nobly are subdu'd,  

    Of the dank morning? What, is Brutus sick,
  KING JOHN. Ay, marry, now my soul hath elbow-room;  
  CRANMER. And let heaven
    The multitudinous tongue; let them not lick
    breaking-out of mirth, as it were, I have acquainted you withal,  
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. But your reason was not substantial, why
  Ham. To be, or not to be- that is the question:
    Infuse his breast with magnanimity
    kill'd. How doth good Mistress Page?-and I thank you
  HECTOR. Aeneas, call my brother Troilus to me,
     beard,' you wagtail?
    Above the moon. We must be burnt for you.  
  KING. My Lord Chamberlain,
  AUTOLYCUS. Ha, ha! what a fool Honesty is! and Trust, his sworn
    thou unconfinable baseness, it is as much as I can do to
    To the possession of thy royal hand.
  LYSANDER. Fair love, you faint with wand'ring in the wood;
  CARDINAL. That he should die is worthy policy;

    You would not then have parted with the ring.
  WARWICK. Who finds the heifer dead and bleeding fresh,
    I will be known your advocate. Marry, yet
                          Before Orleans
    true; if not true, none were enough.

    Than when thou wert Protector to thy King.
    For there it is, crack'd in a hundred shivers.
  Lady. O my good lord, why are you thus alone?
    And stemming it with hearts of controversy.
    hath us'd so long and never paid that now men grow hard-hearted
  BASTARD. Mad world! mad kings! mad composition!


    Hear your own dignity so much profan'd,
    Governs Lord Angelo, a man whose blood

    What kind of my obedience I should tender;
    too. Thou didst swear to me upon a parcel-gilt goblet, sitting in
    Unless thou tell'st me where thou hadst this ring,
    Not Erebus itself were dim enough
  LONGAVILLE. I am resolv'd; 'tis but a three years' fast.
  PAULINA. Good Queen, my lord, good Queen- I say good Queen;
  CROMWELL. The next is that Sir Thomas More is chosen
  KING RICHARD. They shall be satisfied. I'll read enough,
  FIRST CITIZEN. Ourselves, our wives, and children, on our knees
     You sulph'rous and thought-executing fires,
    Contaminate our fingers with base bribes
    rather, as it seems to me now, keepest from me all conveniency

                                                 Exit Murtherer.
    Or hew my way out with a bloody axe.

    Banish your dotage! Banish usury
    And far enough from court too.
    Something in my behalf.
    Must answer for your raising? I know her well:
                 In the sight
    I found no man but he was true to me.
    To keep your earthly audit; sure, in that
  PORTIA. To these injunctions every one doth swear
    Will I to mine leave as 'tis left to me.                Exit
    the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps
             To have the touches dearest priz'd.
  PROTEUS. What seest thou?  
    commonalty.
    The pine, and let thee out.
    Open the gates; 'tis Gloucester that calls.
  Friar. Hold, daughter. I do spy a kind of hope,
  BRUTUS. Only make trial what your love can do
    Till accident or purpose bring you to't.
    Sorrow and grief have vanquish'd all my powers;

     Thy valour and thy heart- thou art a traitor;
    To me or my swift passage that I slide
    intelligence is true; my jealousy is reasonable.
  HOSTESS. Here's goodly stuff toward!
    'Tis not a visitation fram'd, but forc'd
    with the virgin crimson of modesty, if she deny the appearance of
  To appertainings and to ornament,

    Can hold it up.                     [Seats herself on the ground]
  BOLINGBROKE. Nay, rather, every tedious stride I make
Enter WARWICK, the MAYOR OF COVENTRY, two MESSENGERS,

    Pray God we may make haste, and come too late!
    That, his apparent open guilt omitted,
    For it shall strew the footsteps of my rising.
    Which once,' quoth Forrest 'almost chang'd my mind;
  Mess. His letters bears his mind, not I, my lord.
  ANTONIO. It is the quality o' th' climate.  


    up, I likewise give her most humble thanks; but that I will have
  But to our honour's great disparagement,
    With such accommodation and besort

    Laugh at his challenge.
    Linger your patience on, and we'll digest
    Some sudden qualm hath struck me at the heart,  
                                                   [They depart]
    Till we have done at sea. Do not exceed
    The very train of her worst wearing gown
    A lion fell, nor else no lion's dam;
  EMILIA.                   Villainy, villainy, villainy!

    Therefore this article is made in vain,
    See how the ugly witch doth bend her brows
  PISTOL. Young ravens must have food.

  DUCHESS. I hope he is; but yet let mothers doubt.
    Go on and fetch our horses back again.
    They prosper best of all when I am thence.
    alters? A man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure
follows a GENTLEMAN bearing the purse, with the great seal,
  HOLOFERNES. I will play three myself.
                Enter ALCIBIADES, with the rest
    He did entreat me, past all saying nay,
    Upon old Brutus' statue. All this done,
  PAINTER. How this lord is followed!
    Making another head to fight again.
                [A ladder brought, which AARON is made to climb]
    O, had it been a stranger, not my child,
  PANDARUS. An her hair were not somewhat darker than Helen's- well,
    Again with Rome's mechanics. Tell me not  
    Is self from self, a deadly banishment.  
  Edm. Well thought on. Take my sword;
  SIMPLE. I would I could have spoken with the woman
    He knows no more of mine than I of yours;

    Upon his passion. Let myself and Fortune
  HELENA. Tax of impudence,
  Sir John Falstaff.


    Call all in all sufficient? This the nature
  Edm. It was not brought me, my lord: there's the cunning of it. I  
  BASTARD. See, noble Charles, the beacon of our friend;

    We now present. Those that can pity here
    it in?
  PAGE. Yet be cheerful, knight; thou shalt eat a posset
  ROSALINE. You took the moon at full; but now she's changed.
                                          Exeunt all but Brutus.

    That when the sea was calm all boats alike
    He lov'd me-O false wench!-Give't me again.
    heat makes him a fool; the second mads him; and a third drowns
    That never may ill office or fell jealousy,  
  COMINIUS. I'll follow thee a month, devise with the
    But where they mean to sink ye. All good people,  
    Get me ink and paper.
    Show me, my women, like a queen. Go fetch  
use my legs? And yet that were but light payment-to dance out of
    Achilles Is arming, weeping, cursing, vowing vengeance.
  SILVIA. What would you with her, if that I be she?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    And hold me pace in deep experiments.
    To touch Calpurnia, for our elders say
    By all the reverend fathers of the land
  FIRST LORD. Well done, my lord.
    Not portable, lie under this report:  
    Concerning this, sir- O well-painted passion!-
  MALVOLIO. Saying 'Cousin Toby, my fortunes having cast me on your
    my glove in his cap- which he swore, as he was a soldier, he
    Now I perceive that she hath made compare
                       Enter ARIEL
    Dar'd once to touch a dust of England's ground?
    helm. I would fain see them meet, that that same young Troyan ass
    Get me an iron crow and bring it straight
    Are you a man? have you a soul or sense?
    Be perfect.
    If I quench thee, thou flaming minister,
    Two such controlling bounds, shall you be, Kings,
  PETRUCHIO. Now by my mother's son, and that's myself,
    And make my wars on you. Look to't. Come on;  
      faces; branches of bays or palm in their hands. They

  PORTIA. Sir, you are very welcome to our house.
    Than that which hath no foil to set it off.

  Bene. Not I, believe me.
    yet. Suffer us to famish, and their storehouses cramm'd with
    Is th' argument of Time. Of this allow,
    To tread a measure with her on this grass.
  KING HENRY. Call in the messengers sent from the Dauphin.
  CHARMIAN. Madam, methinks, if you did love him dearly,
  FORD. So say I too, sir.
    But suck them up to th' top-mast. A kind of conquest
    Come, you and I must walk a turn together;
    those that are so wash'd. How much better is it to weep at joy
    friends for three reprieves for you and your coach-fellow,
    Who in unnecessary action swarm
    Of lower Syria, Cyprus, Lydia,
    All scholars, lawyers, courtiers, gentlemen,
    shall be the end of my business.
    Would to the bleeding and the grim alarm
    alewife's new petticoat, and so peep'd through.
    Know that to-morrow the last of many battles
    encount'red with a man as good as himself. He is but a knight,
    would desires to be acquainted withal.
  And on just proof surmise, accumulate,
    But with a rearward following Tybalt's death,
    performance?
    She's an adultress.
    If I pervert your course. Who's here?
    With it beat out his brains. Piety and fear,
     Preeminence, and all the large effects
  SUFFOLK. Ah, York, no man alive so fain as I!
    Shouting their emulation.  
  John. Come let us go. These things, come thus to light,
The sea-coast
  LODOVICO. What, not to pray?
  BEROWNE. Stay, slave; I must employ thee.
    Come, bitter conduct; come, unsavoury guide!
  TIMON. Thy back, I prithee.
    To hang thee on; or wouldst thou drown thyself,

  ANTONY. I have done my work ill, friends. O, make an end
  Doct. There is means, madam.
    neighbours will not make them friends. Nay, I can gleek upon
     That troop with majesty. Ourself, by monthly course,  
    passions, fed with the same food, hurt with the same weapons,
    ominous to us: if the son of a whore fight for a whore, he tempts
    gives the leer of invitation; I can construe the action of her
  GREMIO. Believe me, sir, they butt together well.
    For I will be thy headsman, Valentine.
    him better than any man in all Phrygia.
                               Enter Beatrice.
    To wield old partisans, in hands as old,
    remember
    This precious stone set in the silver sea,
    By forfeiting a traitor and a coward.
  Ham. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
    We should have cop'd withal.
  making war against her heir.
A prison.
    Deferr'd the visitation of my friends.

    So diff'ring in their acts. Yet if I knew
  RICHARD PLANTAGENET, DUKE OF YORK
    And yet I know him a notorious liar,
ACT V. SCENE 1.
  SUFFOLK. Away! be gone.                       Exeunt MURDERERS
    straight;
    In going back to school in Wittenberg,
  CALIBAN. That's not the tune.
  Pol. Wherefore should you do this?
    Even to the note o' th' King, or I'll fall in them.
  THOMAS MOWBRAY, Duke of Norfolk

  FLUELLEN. I'll assure you, 'a utt'red as prave words at the pridge
  HORTENSIO. For both our sakes I would that word were true.
  CASSIUS. How now, what's the matter?
    Upon the very naked name of love.

    Should scape the true acquaintance of mine ear.
    And fill me from the crown to the toe top-full
    Appals our numbers. Haste we, Diomed,
  HOST. Peace, I say. Hear mine host of the Garter. Am I
    Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair
    To love-sick Dido's sad attending ear
    if he love her not, and she will die ere she make her love known,
    Most power to do most harm, least knowing ill,
    In having known no travel in his youth.  

    For never was a story of more woe
  AUTOLYCUS. Here's another ballad, of a fish that appeared upon the
    To reconcile you all unto the King.                   Exeunt
    tenants.

    Gaoler, Servants, and other Attendants
    But every rub is smoothed on our way.
    Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
    That Douglas and the English rebels met
    Is not tomorrow, boy, the ides of March?
    we not Hiren here?
  DUKE. I know thee well. How dost thou, my good fellow?
  MRS. PAGE. Alas the day, I know not! There is no woman's
    And call him noble that was now your hate,
  KATHERINA. Ay, for a turtle, as he takes a buzzard.
     to my lodging, from whence I will fitly bring you to hear my
    Being men of such great leading as you are,
    What would you do?
Enter Othello and Iago.
    Whereat a villain's not a welcome guest.
Scene VII.
  IAGO. O me, lieutenant! What villains have done this?  
  OTHELLO.                   I am not valiant neither,
  SERVANT. An't please your honour, players
    Antonio have had any loss at sea or no?  
  TRANIO. See not your bride in these unreverent robes;
    Was that it was for not being such a smile;
    And seek their ruin that usurp'd our right?  
    And they shall be immediately deliver'd.
    What is your name?
    That Rome holds of his name, wherein obscurely
  IAGO. Nay, but be wise; yet we see nothing done;
    Chamberlain!
    not Anne, but a postmaster's boy.
  GLOUCESTER. I have, my lord; and their intent is this:
                      Music [within].
    That loves his mistress more than in confession
    So clear in his great office, that his virtues
    Rose at an instant, learn'd, play'd, eat together;
    'a turns back for very fear.
    Methought I was enamour'd of an ass.
    Buckingham,
    dry-beat the rest of the eight. Will you pluck your sword out of
    As if those organs had deceptious functions
    This present object made probation.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Is friendly with him.

    Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice;
    I'll perfect him withal; and he shall bring you
  CLEOPATRA. I will not hurt him.
    To sounds confus'd; behold the threaden sails,
  Guil. My lord, I cannot.
    The one almost as infinite as all,
    A carrion Death, within whose empty eye

    Pardon's the word to all.
             Sing and dance it trippingly.
    O, turn thy edged sword another way;
                   Enter LYSANDER and HELENA
                     114
    double tongue; there's two tongues.' Thus did she an hour
    Noble she is; but if she have forgot
  CLOWN. Now Mercury endue thee with leasing, for thou speak'st well
  'Tis so, I am an ass; else it could never be
    aussi droit que les natifs d'Angleterre.
    And all to all.
    Had Death been French, then Death had died to-day.
  Unless my nerves were brass or hammered steel.
    Have all true rites and lawful ceremonies.
    O Lord, methought what pain it was to drown,
    Think thy slave man rebels, and by thy virtue
    A gentleman, almost forspent with speed,
    Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
    must go with me, Master Doctor.
    Repeal him with the welcome of his mother;
    There's some among you have beheld me fighting;
    Thy old groans ring yet in mine ancient ears.
  Leon. I'll wait upon them. I am ready.
    But I of these will wrest an alphabet,
  TIMON. Throng'd to?
  WHITMORE. Speak, Captain, shall I stab the forlorn swain?
Florence. The WIDOW'S house
    spit, or your hands in your pocket, like a man after the old
  POSTHUMUS. Being so far provok'd as I was in France, I would abate
  ORLANDO. What passion hangs these weights upon my tongue?
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Yes.
    With twenty thousand soul-confirming oaths!
    for her, as I have just cause, being her uncle and her guardian.
    Which ye shall never have while I live.
    And tell him who hath sent me after him.
  King. As of a man faithful and honourable.
  AGAMEMNON. Here is Sir Diomed. Go, gentle knight,
  Ham. Nor the soles of her shoe?
    From one that so imperfectly conceits,
    Their several kinds have done. My high charms work,
  Fal. Yea. if he said my ring was copper.
  ORLANDO. I beseech you, punish me not with your hard thoughts,
    Therefore delay not- give thy hand to Warwick;

  King. Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
    Tell me once more what title thou dost bear.
  ANNE. No, not for all the riches under heaven.
  DEMETRIUS. I will not stay thy questions; let me go;
    whole charge consists of ancients, corporals, lieutenants,
  Which in my bosom's shop is hanging still,
    And every godfather can give a name.
    This gentleman, my Cadwal, Arviragus,
    Or I will fill the house with armed men,
  BOLINGBROKE. Part of your cares you give me with your crown.
                       The Tower of London

    How soon my sorrow hath destroy'd my face.
    As well descended as thyself, and hath
  FIRST SOLDIER. 'Twill be deliver'd back on good condition.
  KATHERINE. Et le coude?
      [To AUMERLE] Beshrew thee, cousin, which didst lead me forth
    And then your Highness shall command a peace.
  KING. If you deny to dance, let's hold more chat.
    Falls.
  CLOTEN. I love and hate her; for she's fair and royal,
  NESTOR. All the better; their fraction is more our wish than their
    the gallant militarist-that was his own phrase-that had the whole
    Stand like the forfeits in a barber's shop,
    And want of wisdom, you, that best should teach us,
  
                                Exeunt GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM
    dozen of such bearded hermits' staves as Master Shallow. It is a
    I'll haste the writer, and withal
    Or chivalrous design of knightly trial;
  NORFOLK. Marry, amen!
  CASSIO.                 I pray you, sir, go forth,
    Before thy coming, Lewis was Henry's friend.
    dinner; come, let's to dinner. Jesus, the days that we have seen!
    When he perceives the envious clouds are bent  
    Which now doth that I would not have it do-
    So early walking did I see your son.
    Lest it should ravel and be good to none,
    The perfume and suppliance of a minute;
    They are infected; in their hearts it lies;
    If thou but frown on me, or stir thy foot,
  LONGAVILLE. And since her time are colliers counted bright.

    Impudent strumpet!
    This tun of treasure; and, in lieu of this,
    He spake of her as Dian had hot dreams
    For what I have I need not to repeat,
  KING. The Prince hath ta'en it hence. Go, seek him out.
    Desires access to you.
  QUEEN. Of sorrow or of joy?
    Saw sighs reek from you, noted well your passion.
    How her acquaintance grew with this lewd fellow.
    forgive thee for it! Before I knew thee, Hal, I knew nothing; and  
            TITUS kills him. During the fray, exeunt SATURNINUS,
                 In his rage and his wrath,
  Ham. At supper.

ACT II. SCENE 4.
    Rouse up thy youthful blood, be valiant, and live.
    Which makes me hope you are not void of pity.
  VIOLA. My lord would speak; my duty hushes me.
    And make them dread it, to the doer's thrift.
  PAGE. Come, come; we'll couch i' th' Castle ditch till we
    But, as in health, come to my natural taste,

    With six Aufidiuses, or more- his tribe,
    Proportion'd to our cause, must be as great
    And praise myself for charity.                          Exit
    Lavinia, come. Marcus, look to my house.
    anon.                                           Exit STEWARD
     I have serv'd you ever since I was a child;
    And, as we may, cherish Duke Humphrey's deeds
    Make war with him that climb'd unto their nest,
    Thy honorable mettle may be wrought
    to look out at her lady's chamber window.
  CAMILLO. Shall satisfy your father.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  FOOL. Look you, here comes my mistress' page.
  ARCHBISHOP. What is this forest call'd
    That in these several places of the city
    Why should I war without the walls of Troy
                                                      Exit Desdemona.
    art heir apparent- But I prithee, sweet wag, shall there be
    So thou refuse to drink my dear sons' blood.
  LENNOX. Sent he to Macduff?
  CRANMER. God and your Majesty
  FIRST SOLDIER.                                         [Reads]
    And through Walls chink, poor souls, they are content
    Which done, she took the fruits of my advice,
    my injury.
    Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed
  QUEEN. Go, look after.                             Exit CLOTEN
    And so of you, beauteous and lovely youth,
    So the poor third is up, till death enlarge his confine.
  NERISSA. What think you of the Scottish lord, his neighbour?
  Shall hate be fairer lodged than gentle love?
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and DOCTOR CAIUS
    And if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl,
  BASTARD. According to the fair play of the world,
    Shall pass on thy approof. Most noble Antony,
    But give your pigeons to the Emperor;

        approve,
    With cloth of any colour.
    Hast sold me to this novice; and my heart
  NESTOR. And very courtly counsel: I'll begin.
     Lending me this acquaintance. I pray you go
    As wit turn'd fool; folly, in wisdom hatch'd,
    Sear'd otherwise; ne worse of worst-extended  
    Must sanctify his relics. Who comes here?
    the Park. I pray you pardon me; I will hereafter make
    Are we betrayed thus to thy over-view?
  ANTIGONUS.  [Aside]  To laughter, as I take it,  

    Once more adieu. My father at the road
    How doth the good knight? May I ask how my lady his wife doth?
    In wholesome manner.                                    Exit
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Thou bastard of my grandfather!
  POMPEY. I'll try you on the shore.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    The lives of many. The cesse of majesty
    And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken

    He rises on the toe. That spirit of his
    Fie on sinful fantasy!
    The offer likes not; and the nimble gunner
    For Banquo's issue have I filed my mind,
  CASSIUS. I am.
    And that was all?
  With objects manifold; each several stone,
    And dip their napkins in his sacred blood,
    And, my most noble friends, I pray you all
    Under whose government come they along?
The Garter Inn
     Or well or ill, as this day's battle's fought.        Exit.
    Is to become her husband and her father;
    I took him for the plainest harmless creature
    And now you should be as your mother was
  AGRIPPA. Royal wench!
                        Re-enter SALISBURY

    Fear frames disorder, and disorder wounds
    That bastes his arrogance with his own seam
  CASSIO. Madam, not now. I am very ill at ease,  
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    I go of message from the Queen to France:
  Par. Beguil'd, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. And I with him.
  KING. Ay me!
  Ros. Then is the world one.
    Each Troyan that is master of his heart,

    Or he shall pay for this.
    Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
    Didst thou beat heaven with blessing Bolingbroke
  MRS. PAGE. Come on, sirrah; hold up your head; answer your
  PORTIA. I must go in. Ay me, how weak a thing
    And rotten times that you shall look upon
    Or if not so, thy noble heart to break.
    And stol'n the impression of her fantasy  
    That like a jewel has hung twenty years
          Re-enter WOLSEY with GARDINER
    And with thy blessings steel my lance's point,
  CLIFFORD. Plantagenet, I come, Plantagenet;

    Of capital treason 'gainst the King and crown.
    The parents live whose children thou hast butcheed,
    To ransack Troy, within whose strong immures
    To use it like a giant.
    Not only take away, but let your sentence
     [To Edgar] Thou, robed man of justice, take thy place.
  PISTOL. A noble shalt thou have, and present pay;
    For these base bondmen to the yoke of Rome.  
    the Council rated me the other day in the street about you, sir,
  GLOUCESTER. Nay, Eleanor, then must I chide outright.
    I am gone.                                              Exit  
    wife's wit going to your neighbour's bed.

    Where death is sure. Yon ribaudred nag of Egypt-
  BAPTISTA. Son, I'll be your half Bianca comes.
    Co-rivall'd greatness? Either to harbour fled
     During the life of this old Majesty,
  SHEPHERD. Are you a courtier, an't like you, sir?
    To grubs and eyeless skulls? As I discern,
    For his divisions, as the times do brawl,
    that these follies are within you, and shine through you like the
    shall have Anne Page for myself? By gar, I vill kill de Jack
    As we do trace this alley up and down,
  MOWBRAY. Be it so.  
    I'll get me such a colour'd periwig.
  SEBASTIAN. As many vouch'd rarities are.
    man. He is very well-favour'd, and he speaks very shrewishly; one
    Upon some stubborn and uncourteous parts
          I must be here confin'd by you,
    Alack, alack, that heaven should practise stratagems
    his own fancy; not to know what we speak one to another, so we
    my mind.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    I am joined with no foot land-rakers, no long-staff sixpenny
    And mark how he continues.
    Against my power; thrice from the banks of Wye
    An you be mine, I'll give you to my friend;
  SECOND LORD. Believe it, my lord, in mine own direct knowledge,
    know himself.
    More sharp than this is.
                       Enter Don Pedro.
  ROSALIND. From henceforth I will, coz, and devise sports.

    My lord, not I.
  NATHANIEL. A most singular and choice epithet.
    Hath sent you here this ring, and doth entreat
    To see her women- any of them? Emilia?
  SPEED, a clownish servant to Valentine
    Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
  KING HENRY. Great is his comfort in this earthly vale,
    Let it be tenable in your silence still;
  HELENA. Madam, I had.

  BUCKINGHAM. My lord, your promise for the earldom-
  BASTARD. Show me the very wound of this ill news;
    Lie there my art. Wipe thou thine eyes; have comfort.
  TIMON. How shall she be endow'd,
Scene II.
  CASCA. Ay, if I be alive, and your mind hold, and your dinner worth
  LODOVICO. Wrench his sword from him.
    Misshapen chaos of well-seeming forms!
    stronger than the word of a tapster; they are both the confirmer
    But he's an arrant knave.
    I am afeard You make a wanton of me.
    When tempest of commotion, like the south,
    I cannot do it. Yet I'll hammer it out.
    I'll to the Tuscan wars, and never bed her.
    as the word 'occupy'; which was an excellent good word before it

  CHARLES. We have guided by thee hitherto,
    All curses madded Hecuba gave the Greeks,
    As willingly as one would kill a fly;
    Happier the man whom favourable stars
    Being now seen possible enough, got credit,
  SCROOP. Sweet love, I see, changing his property,
    No grave upon the earth shall clip in it
    it die as it was born, and I pray you be better acquainted.
    How happily he lives, how well-belov'd
    To kill their gracious father? Damned fact!

  When he demean'd himself rough, rude, and wildly.
    Mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.
      [Aside]  How now, foolish rheum!
    like the case!
                         and forces
  ELBOW, a simple constable
  And you the calendars of their nativity,

  DIOMEDES. This shall I undertake; and 'tis a burden
  Edg. Let's exchange charity.
    A twelvemonth shall you spend, and never rest,
    Deliberate pause. Diseases desperate grown
    I have cause, and smile at no man's jests; eat when I have
    That lock up your restraint. For you, Posthumus,
  CLEOPATRA. He is a god, and knows
  GOBBO. Her name is Margery, indeed. I'll be sworn, if thou be
    Our firebrand brother, Paris, burns us all.
    Fresher than e'er it was, and held for certain
  Other. I tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight.

    Who should against his murtherer shut the door,  
    I had as lief not be as live to be
    Must needs want pleading for a pair of eyes.
                     140
  CARDINAL BEAUFORT, BISHOP OF WINCHESTER, great-uncle to the King
    Should have gone off.
  IAGO. I am one, sir, that comes to tell you your daughter and the
Belmont. PORTIA's house
  QUEEN. Pray walk awhile.
    He labor'd in his country's wreck, I know not;
    And when in music we have spent an hour,
    Love's thrice-repured nectar? Death, I fear me;
     No, I will weep no more. In such a night
    My mind exceeds the compass of her wheel.
  VALENTINE. If the Duke continue these favours towards you, Cesario,
    For that, 'Forgive our Romans.' O, a kiss

  Lady. We will have vengeance for it, fear thou not.
    Washing with kindly tears his gentle cheeks,
    Are led so grossly by this meddling priest,

    Or in my life what comfort, when I am
  DUCHESS. My Lord, you told me you would tell the rest,
    But first I will release the Fairy Queen.
    Answer his emptiness! Caesar, thou hast subdu'd
Enter NYM, BARDOLPH, PISTOL, and BOY
    Quickly; and certainly she did you wrong, for you were
    Our hostess keeps her state, but in best time
  TOWNSMAN. Forsooth, a blind man at Saint Albans shrine
  SICINIUS. Nor I.
  OTHELLO. Ay, 'twas he that told me first.  

  PORTIA. Thyself shalt see the act;

    Moor, she was chaste; she loved thee, cruel Moor;
    Thou seek'st the greatness that will overwhelm thee.
  Friar. Who is it?
    The deep damnation of his taking-off,
    And by my side wear steel? Then Lucifer take all!
    For know, my lords, the states of Christendom,
  CHARMIAN. O madam, madam, madam!
    For that same handkerchief?
    And hush'd with buzzing night-flies to thy slumber,
    To trust the opportunity of night,
  CITIZEN. This here before you.  
  Glou. (reads) 'This policy and reverence of age makes the world
SCENE 5.
    His humble weeds. Will you dismiss the people?
  TIMON. Keep it: I cannot eat it.
    [Aside.] This supernatural soliciting
    For I do see the cruel pangs of death
    It is not meet you know how Caesar loved you.
    on your abode.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  PROCULEIUS. Caesar sends greetings to the Queen of Egypt,
of a displeasing play, to pray your patience for it and to promise you
    And helter-skelter have I rode to thee;
  IAGO. Patience, I say; your mind perhaps may change.
    Should be the father to so blest a son-
    breeding but to play at loggets with 'em? Mine ache to think
  LORENZO. Heaven and thy thoughts are witness that thou art.

  CELIA. Come, come, wrestle with thy affections.
    With leave, Bassanio: I am half yourself,
  MENENIUS. Worthy man!
  LOVELL. Methinks I could
    It is too hard a knot for me t' untie!                  Exit
  AGRIPPA. Sir, Mark Antony
    So I were not his sister. Can't no other,
    Lest rest and lying still might make them look
  ELINOR. Come hither, little kinsman; hark, a word.
  SLY. Marry, I fare well; for here is cheer enough.
  BUCKINGHAM. Pray, give me favour, sir; this cunning cardinal
    And send him many years of sunshine days!
                     87

    Basely insinuate and send us gifts.
    Thy adversary's wife doth pray for thee.
    I, her frail son, amongst my brethren mortal,
  EMILIA. My husband?
  AGUECHEEK. But it becomes me well enough, does't not?
  TITUS. Nay, nay, let Rape and Murder stay with me,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    The ring was never hers.
    You, brother mine, that entertain'd ambition,
    Sir John, I am thy Pistol and thy friend,
     What most he should dislike seems pleasant to him;
  SECOND LORD. Hardly serve.
    have them still. O, my knave, how does my old lady?
     That will with two pernicious daughters join
    he bid me knock him and rap him soundly, sir. Well, was it fit
                     Enter a Messenger.
    here. Here's no scoring but upon the pate. Soft! who are you?
    And a man's life is no more than to say 'one.'
    ground Which? which, I mean, I upon; it is ycleped thy park. Then
  FERDINAND. This is strange; your father's in some passion
  From his low tract and look another way:
    Grown sere and tedious; yea, my gravity,
    That never dream'st on aught but butcheries.

    briers is this working-day world!
              The watch dogs bark.
    O, let me live!
  SUFFOLK. Yes, there is remedy enough, my lord.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    To tell thee that this day is ominous.
  HELENA. A foolish heart that I leave here behind.
    Making them women of good carriage.
  FIRST LORD. Good my lord-

    way of honesty; and, I warrant you, they could never get
    Be my retentive enemy, my gaol?
    Go I to make the French lay down their arms.                 Exit
    Command me.
  Mar. Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
  LARTIUS. Worthy sir, thou bleed'st;

    Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
    That should but rive an oak. Why dost not speak?
    To vow, and swear, and superpraise my parts,
    Under the lordly monarch of the north,
    Which the poor heart would fain deny and dare not.

    My husband is on earth, my faith in heaven.
    His leg is but so-so; and yet 'tis well.
SCENE V.
    knaves desire to live, for all he be a Roman; and there be some
    To have him see me woman'd.
      modest paces
    Of Essex, Norfolk, Suffolk, nor of Kent,
    An honourable trial.

  Ben. There lies that Tybalt.
    As if lie mast'red there a double spirit
    A brittle glory shineth in this face;
    Looking awry upon your lord's departure,
    To swear swears only not to be forsworn;
             And the wolf behowls the moon;  
  ALCIBIADES. Call me to your remembrances.  
  THE DUKE OF FLORENCE
  CRESSIDA. O heavens! 'Be true' again!

    Give me thy hand. 'Tis late. Farewell; good night.
  CASCA. Why, Antony.
    If there were no foes, that were enough
  HERMIA. Lysander riddles very prettily.
    certain she's old; and had Robin Nightwork, by old Nightwork,
    Yet grace must still look so.
    clothes; and one that hath spoke most villainous speeches of the
    To mark me for his friend; yet I protest,
  But then begins a journey in my head
    Mangling by starts the full course of their glory.
                And ever among so merrily.
    till my lord return from the wars.
    As Humphrey, prov'd by reasons, to my liege.
  TOUCHSTONE. When a man's verses cannot be understood, nor a man's
  STANLEY. Unless for that, my liege, I cannot guess.
  CLOWN. We are but plain fellows, sir.
  LAUNCELOT. Pray you, let's have no more fooling about it, but give
    EARL OF PEMBROKE
  VIOLA. And I, most jocund, apt, and willingly,  
                     Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE
    Let us sway on and face them in the field.
  SALISBURY. Peter? What more?
     That you protect this course, and put it on
    There is either liquor in his pate or money in his purse
    Dare mate a sounder man than Surrey can be
    canst speak no better English; for if thou couldst, thou wouldst
    Whereas the contrary bringeth bliss,
    How doth that royal merchant, good Antonio?
           [NORTHUMBERLAND advances to the Castle, with a trumpet]  
  BANQUO. Ay, my good lord.
    They had parted so much honesty among 'em-
    Of female favour, and bestows himself
  SECOND MESSENGER. By this at Daintry, with a puissant troop.
    Now sways it that way, like the selfsame sea
      In Mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
    And ready mounted are they to spit forth
    I am compar'd to twenty thousand fairs.
     T' avert your liking a more worthier way
    Too rashly plotted; all our general force
                     145
    Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor  
  DUCHESS. No, boy.
  FIRST MURTHERER. Stand to't.
  LONGAVILLE. Am I the first that have been perjur'd so?
  KING. What's that, Butts?
          And be you blithe and bonny,
    As you have done- that's what I can; induc'd
  DESDEMONA.               Well, my good lord.
  EXETER. It grieves his Highness. Good my lords, be friends.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. All the commons
                 A soldier's a man;
    That suffer surfeit, cloyment, and revolt;
  SERVANTS to Page, Ford, etc.
    So much applauded through the realm of France?
    When judges steal themselves. What, do I love her,  
  Gon. Farewell, sweet lord, and sister.
    But now is Cade driven back, his men dispers'd,

    And the nobility of Rome are his;
  Ant. [to Hero] Well, niece, I trust you will be rul'd by your
    Keep in your bosom; yet remain assur'd
    Think not the King did banish thee,
    Ourselves well sinewed to our defence.
    And now I fear that fatal prophecy.

  SECOND LORD. The stronger part of it by her own letters, which
  QUINCE. Ay, marry, must you; for you must understand he goes but to
  ANTONIO. Let me know of you whither you are bound.
  TIMON. Would poison were obedient, and knew my mind!
  PANDARUS. You depend upon a notable gentleman; I must needs praise
  That heaven's air in this huge rondure hems.
    In lists on Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
    Some petty and unprofitable dukedoms.
    Give solely sovereign sway and masterdom.

    By whom this great assembly is contriv'd,
  AUTOLYCUS. I hope so, sir; for I have about me many parcels of
    Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty.
    She strike upon the bell. Get thee to bed.     Exit Servant.
  PLANTAGENET. Of Which, my lord, your honour is the last.  
    Lord Strange of Blackmere, Lord Verdun of Alton,  
    From women's eyes this doctrine I derive:
    My birthplace hate I, and my love's upon
    And then I swore thee, saving of thy life,

    So tender of rebukes that words are strokes,
    Ford differs. To thy great comfort in this mystery of ill
  GONZALO. Now, good angels
    To comfort you the more, I have receiv'd

    Scars to move laughter only.
    Which to recure, we heartily solicit
    lord.
  HOLOFERNES. Satis quod sufficit.
    That makes his opening with this bigger key;
    With her companion, Grief, must end her life.
    By which he should revive; and even so
  PETRUCHIO. You lie, in faith, for you are call'd plain Kate,
    Wisdom and fortune combating together,
    in one Mistress Page, gives intelligence of Ford's approach;

  Lear. How old art thou?
    with a kind of injunction drives me to these habits of her
    Thy brother's blood the thirsty earth hath drunk,
    Salisbury, and Warwick;
    And, after some dispatch in hand at court,
  CONSTANCE. O fair return of banish'd majesty!
    What is this castle call'd that stands hard by?
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. Those men are happy; and so are all
  SHYLOCK. I pray you, give me leave to go from hence;  
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. What, will you murder me? Thou gaoler, thou,
    Than in the note of judgment; and worthier than himself

  MALVOLIO. That the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird.
    to throw at his dog.                             Exit SIMPLE
    For their advantage and your Highness' loss.
  BRUTUS. Say you ne'er had done't-
    May it please you, lords, to grant the commons' suit?
  the palm of the hand.

  MENTEITH. The Wood of Birnam.
  BRUTUS. Now, as you are a Roman, tell me true.
    Great Marshal to Henry the Sixth
  Rey. My lord, that would dishonour him.

    Murder, stern murder, in the dir'st degree;
Alarum. Enter the KING and his train, with prisoners; EXETER, and others
  BRUTUS. Well, well, we'll leave you.


    With rainy marching in the painful field;
    And Lord Scales with him, and Lord Hungerford;

     Thy arm may do thee justice. Here is mine.
  And proud of many, lives upon his gains?
    twelve persons there. Is this true?
  SALERIO. Why, all the boys in Venice follow him,
    But let determin'd things to destiny
    My heart fly to your service; there resides
    With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
    That made me happy, at one stroke has taken
    To gain the love o' th' commonalty; the Duke
  LE BEAU. You amaze me, ladies. I would have told you of good
  Hot. O, then the earth shook to see the heavens on fire,
  SILVIA. Yes, yes; the lines are very quaintly writ;
    This day she was both pantler, butler, cook;
    perceive
    affectionately to you-
    At many leisures I propos'd.
    Of being tyrannous, since we so openly
    I a woodman, ha? Speak I like Heme the Hunter? Why,
    Against the Duke of Clarence, but have been
  By new unfolding his imprisoned pride.
    The father- all whose joy is nothing else
  CLAUDIO. If it were damnable, he being so wise,
  Your shallowest help will hold me up afloat,
  KING RICHARD. Now, by the world-  
  Queen. He's fat, and scant of breath.
    As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven
    Since all and every part of what we would  
    Choose Caesar for their king.
Milan. The DUKE'S palace
    bowl.
    is an idle and most false imposition; oft got without merit and
  EXETER. Bloody constraint; for if you hide the crown
    And lulls him whilst she playeth on her back,
    The penance lies on you if these fair ladies
  GHOST OF RIVERS.  [To RICHARD]  Let me sit heavy in thy
  MARGARET. He talks of wood. It is some carpenter.
  BEROWNE. And three times thrice is nine.
    And from the pride of Gallia rescued thee.
    Which thou thyself hast given her woeful breast.
 CANTERBURY. My lord, I'll tell you: that self bill is urg'd
    Lest child, child's children, cry against you woe.  
                       Enter BERTRAM, guarded

Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with LORDS
    The honour'd gashes whole.
    I have no will to wander forth of doors,
                                                  Exit MAMILLIUS
    What are they, I beseech your ladyship?
  LAUNCELOT. Talk you of young Master Launcelot?  [Aside]  Mark me

    A good digestion to you all; and once more
    You were as flow'rs, now wither'd. Even so
     No, but not yet! May be he is not well.
    By our best eyes cannot be censured.
    If each of you should take this course, how many
    They grow still too; from all parts they are coming,

PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Well, honor is the subject of my story.
    Trot, like a servile footman, all day long,
    And there she shall at Friar Laurence' cell
    That wrings mine eyes to't.  
    endure a husband with a beard on his face. I had rather lie in
    How say you, madam? Are ye so content?
    And didst in signs again parley with sin;
  Friar. Hark, how they knock! Who's there? Romeo, arise;
  Will lose his beauty; yet the gold bides still
    His child is like to her, fair as you are.

  GLOUCESTER. [Aside] I hear, yet say not much, but think the more.
  Prince. O villain! thou stolest a cup of sack eighteen years ago
    Within there, and our viands! Fortune knows
  QUINCE. You can play no part but Pyramus; for Pyramus is a
  CALIBAN. I have seen thee in her, and I do adore thee. My

                 Enter CLARENCE and SOMERSET
    your sake, Kate, why you undid me; for the one I have neither
    Without the privity o' th' King-t' appoint
    I robb'd his wound of it; behold it stain'd
  SECOND CITIZEN. Peace! Let us hear what Antony can say.
    Will hear your idle scorns, continue then,
  TRANIO. O, sir, Lucentio slipp'd me like his greyhound,
  ELINOR. Who is it thou dost call usurper, France?
     Crack Nature's moulds, all germains spill at once,
  LEONTES. She had; and would incense me
  And look upon my self and curse my fate,
  SERVANT. Excellent! Your lordship's a goodly villain. The devil
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Or shall they last, and we rejoice in them?
    When means and lavish manners meet together,
    serving-man and your husband.
  Say that thou didst forsake me for some fault,
    My stooping duty tenderly shall show.
    But buckler with thee blows, twice two for one.
    Never did base and rotten policy
Windsor Castle
                                              Exit into the town
  CLOWN. Fear not thou, man; thou shalt lose nothing here.

    Shall pierce a jot. There's gold to pay thy soldiers.

ACT IV. Scene I.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Shall I be tempted of the devil thus?
    O, could this kiss be printed in thy hand,
                           Flourish. Exeunt CAESAR and his train
  COUNTESS. Such friends are thine enemies, knave.
    Should make a start o'er seas and vanquish you?
  Alb. Run, run, O, run!
    The bird of wonder dies, the maiden phoenix
Enter ADRIANA, LUCIANA, the COURTEZAN, and OTHERS
    Your slander never can endamage him;
    If thou wilt, go with me to the alehouse; if not, thou art an
    In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond,
    But sweet, or colour it had stol'n from thee.

    To prove him false that says I love thee not.
    To effect this marriage, so it please my lord.
    Such as befits the pleasure of the court?
                 Enter MELUN, wounded
    Shall be wip'd out in the next Parliament,
  SECOND OFFICER. Come, sir, away.
    I'll not budge an inch, boy; let him come, and kindly.
  IMOGEN. My boon is that this gentleman may render
    Were damnable.
  SECOND COMMONER. A trade, sir, that, I hope, I may use with a safe
    I am glad at soul I have no other child;
    How could you give it him?
    I have reserv'd alive.  
    Against all noble sufferance.
  VERNON. Sirrah, thy lord I honour as he is.
    And fire-ey'd fury be my conduct now!
    I have myself resolv'd upon a course
  CHAMBERLAIN. What is't for?
    We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar,
    So his familiars to his buried fortunes
  SECOND PETITIONER. Come back, fool; this is the Duke of Suffolk and
    And I will give a taste thereof forthwith
    not bid me remember mine end.
  YORK. God for his mercy! what a tide of woes
  If eyes corrupt by over-partial looks,  
    warrener.
  MARIA. Will you hoist sail, sir? Here lies your way.
  And sable curls all silvered o'er with white:  
  VARRIUS, a gentleman, servant to the Duke
    May token to the future our past deeds.
  KING RICHARD. Must I do so? And must I ravel out
    Come, good fellow, put mine iron on.
    Was it not she and that good man of worship,
    Near or far off, well won is still well shot;
    Hath yet a kind of medicine in itself
  DUKE. This nor hurts him nor profits you a jot;
    If virtue no delighted beauty lack,
  BIGOT. To-morrow morning let us meet him then.
  Mess. He did, my lord, four days ere I set forth,
    Shall all be done by th' rule. Good night, dear lady.
    being near their master; if to his men, I would curry with Master
  LEONTES. Read the indictment.
    his mistress, who was made by him that made the tailor, not be
  OBERON. What thou seest when thou dost wake,
    I should report this now, would they believe me?
  DIOMEDES
  CLEOPATRA. Where?  
  Chorus.
  SPEED. 'Item: She hath a sweet mouth.'
    Were there in arms, they would be as a can
    Thinking his prattle to be tedious;
    most sweet Jew! If a Christian do not play the knave and get
    What I have said to you.
    tithe of a hair was never lost in my house before.
    There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st
    To hang a doubt on; or woe upon thy life!
  LEONTES. Do, Paulina;
    Papers of state he sent me to peruse,

    And not depending on his friendly wish.
  This chain you had of me; can you deny it?


    What great hope have you! No hope that way is
    Take in your love, and then let me alone.
  Bene. Would you buy her, that you enquire after her?
    Was crown'd in Paris but at nine months old.

  BEROWNE. Things hid and barr'd, you mean, from common sense?  
  Alb. Which is that adversary?
  HELEN. Why, this is kindly done.
    Corrupt the tender honour of a maid;
    Fight till the last gasp; I will be your guard.
    not off.
    By the rough torrent of occasion;
  HERMIA. What's this to my Lysander? Where is he?
    Yet not so wealthy as an English yeoman.
    He shall not rule me.
    and see if you can see my master, Master Doctor
  HOST. Here, Master Doctor, in perplexity and doubtful
  LAFEU. A shrewd knave, and an unhappy.
    Have I not strove to love, although I knew  
    Trampling contemptuously on thy disdain.
    Which holds not colour with the time, nor does
  Laer. This nothing's more than matter.
  PROTEUS. Why, this it is: my heart accords thereto;
    When I was stamp'd. Some coiner with his tools
    And bid her hasten all the house to bed,
  Where Dowsabel did claim me for her husband.
    word.
    better man than Troilus.
    And the late marriage made of none effect;
    Doth comfort thee in thy sleep. Live and flourish!
  JESSICA. Here, catch this casket; it is worth the pains.
    So can I give no reason, nor I will not,
  PISTOL. I will discharge upon her, Sir John, with two bullets.
  EDWARD. O, speak no more! for I have heard too much.
    I, as a child, will go by thy direction.
     found it thrown in at the casement of my closet.
    I grant I am a woman, but withal
  GRATIANO. Signior Bassanio, hear me:  
  QUINCE. Some of your French crowns have no hair at all, and then
  LADY GREY. Then, no, my lord. My suit is at an end.
    Do what thou canst, I will not go to-day;
    Do not live, Hero; do not ope thine eyes;
    youth, must confess, are wags too.
    pudding! Didst thou not see her paddle with the palm of his hand?
    "Lo, Caesar is afraid"?  
    And move in that obedient orb again
    And begg'd the ring; the which I did deny him,
  Glou. Methinks y'are better spoken.
  YORK. Marry, they say my uncle grew so fast
England and France
    That, being brought into the open air,
  LAUNCELOT. Nay, indeed, if you had your eyes, you might fail of the
    My lord and you were then at Mantua.
  Mon. I neither know it nor can learn of him
    As mercy does.
    Nor keep his princely heart from Richard's hand.
    But you should pity me!
  Could make me any summer's story tell:
    Come, challenge me, challenge me by these deserts;
  SOOTHSAYER. Madam, not yet. I go to take my stand
    The Castle in Saint Albans, Somerset
    most apt to play the sir in. Very good. Well kissed! an excellent
   Enter Douglas. He fighteth with Falstaff, who falls down as if  
SCENE VI.
    Counsel me, Tranio, for I know thou canst;  
    Set this device against Malvolio here,
    Fare thee well, dame, whate'er becomes of me.
    If truth and upright innocency fail me,
  CASSIO. He speaks home, madam. You may relish him more in the
  YORK. About what?
    On both his knees doth kiss King Richard's hand,
  FALSTAFF. By the Lord, a buck-basket! Ramm'd me in with
    The Turk, that two and fifty kingdoms hath,
    Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark.
    There were no suns to borrow of.  
    Thy nephews' souls bid thee despair and die.
  BOTTOM. A calendar, a calendar! Look in the almanack; find out
     'Enough, enough,' and die. That thing you speak of,
  BARNARDINE. Not a word; if you have anything to say to me, come to


    In the affliction of these terrible dreams
  KING JOHN. O cousin, thou art come to set mine eye!
    then, to be stopp'd in, like a strong distillation, with
    very ill house too.
         Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,

    Return so much, I have shook my head and wept;
                                                          Exeunt
SCENE IV.
    I now repent I told the pursuivant,
  CORIN. Here comes young Master Ganymede, my new mistress's brother.
    Which I have pass'd upon her; she is banish'd.
    Be emptied to redeem a traitor home?
    That mend upon the world.
    And use of service, none; contract, succession,
  IRAS. Do, most dear Queen.

    maidenhead- to your cars, divinity; to any other's, profanation.
    And welcome to our shearing.

    And ev'ry hair that's on 't, Helen, that's dead,

  CRESSIDA. Will you walk in, my lord?
    Great Birnam Wood to high Dunsinane Hill
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    For my profession's sacred from above.
  For since each hand hath put on nature's power,  
    spitting, or saying we are hoarse, which are the only prologues
    an you'll tell me wherefore.

    Where is she and her son? Tell me, who knows.
    Definitively thus I answer you:
                                                [Giving a paper]
    And say withal I think he held the right.
    He hath abus'd your powers.
    It hath to climb. The general's disdain'd
    Procure me some access.
    To know it further. Fears and scruples shake us.
    And weak we are, and cannot shun pursuit.
  SICINIUS. Bid them all home; he's gone, and we'll no further.
    How came you, Cassio, by that handkerchief
    The one for ever earn'd a royal husband;
    Of this strange nature, that a thing inseparate
    Let the bloat King tempt you again to bed;
    formerly better; marry, yet 'tis a wither'd pear. Will you
    Look, 'when his infant fortune came to age,'
    One do I personate of Lord Timon's frame,
  MENENIUS. Ay, to devour him, as the hungry plebeians would the
    this day against God's peace and the King's, we charge
  AGAMEMNON. Sir, you of Troy, call you yourself Aeneas?
  WILLIAM. A stone.
  DESDEMONA. Am I that name, Iago?
    That Norfolk lies. Here do I throw down this,
  King. Lords, give us leave. The Prince of Wales and I
    To have you therein my companion.
    fair Desdemona, unless his abode be lingered here by some
  QUICKLY. Now Heaven send thee good fortune!  [Exit
  DAUPHIN. By faith and honour,
    Whom once more I present unto your Highness.


    plunge him into far more choler.
    for if I tell you, I am not true Athenian. I will tell you
  Comes home again, on better judgement making.
    Changes the mood; for what in me was purchas'd
    Now tell me, Proteus, what's your will with me?
  CAESAR. Wherefore is that? And what art thou that dar'st
  KING HENRY. I would have her learn, my fair cousin, how perfectly I

    Against the non-performance, 'twas a fear

PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Do with your injuries as seems you best
  BEROWNE. I know you did.
  FIRST LORD. I had rather you did lack than I, my lord,
    Alack, where are you? Speak, an if you hear;
    May easily win a woman's. Ay, my mother,
    The clothiers all, not able to maintain
    I am about, let them depart.
    attemptable, than any the rarest of our ladies in France.
                      and CHARLES fly
     Striving to better, oft we mar what's well.

    With these you bear already.
    Directly to his good? Divinity of hell!
  Wor. You start away.
    I swoon to see thee.
    make a crooked face at it. I cannot say your worships have
    Hath spoken well and justly; therefore, madam,
    A word of this. What ho, within! come forth.  
  GURNEY. Good leave, good Philip.
                        and others following].
    This Ajax is half made of Hector's blood;
Sound trumpets. Enter KING, QUEEN, and SOMERSET, on the terrace
    I will go eat with thee, and see your knights.
  So oft have I invoked thee for my muse,
  BASSANIO. This were kindness.
     Let me still take away the harms I fear,
SCENE III.
                               Enter GOWER  
    Be theme and hearing ever- was in this Britain,
    To view the sick and feeble parts of France;
  BOYET. I will; and so will she, I know, my lord.          Exit
  SECOND MURTHERER. A light, a light!
  BOURBON. Shame, and eternal shame, nothing but shame!
    Bring him our prisoner.
  TIMON. What if it should be so?
  Host. Thou art an unjust man in saying so. Thou or any man knows
    Makes the survivor heir of all.
    He answers:
    The source of all erection. There's more gold.
    It most of all these reasons bindeth us
  But though thou art adjudged to the death,
    Who was enroll'd 'mongst wonders, and when we,
  KING RICHARD. Say that I did all this for love of her.
  ELBOW. First, an it like you, the house is a respected house; next,
  AGAMEMNON. No question.
    So excellent a king, that was to this
    She's well, but bade me not commend her to you.
    shoulders, and have given ourselves without scruple to hell,
    I gave thee life and rescu'd thee from death.
    Even in the instant of repair and health,
    Were both extermin'd.
    To see our widower's second marriage-day.
    Do like the mutines of Jerusalem,
  MALCOLM. It is myself I mean, in whom I know  

  CLEOMENES. But of all, the burst
  BASSET. And me, my lord, grant me the combat too.
    O monstrous treachery! Can this be so
    Do rush upon us as their hungry prey.
  Claud. Sweet Hero, now thy image doth appear
  PYRAMUS. No, in truth, sir, he should not. Deceiving me is Thisby's
    Which I shall send you written, be assur'd
    Unless we sweep 'em from the door with cannons,
    Hath made thy person for the thrower-out
    The herbs that have on them cold dew o' th' night

    For honesty and decent carriage,
    Learning is but an adjunct to ourself,
  But if thou catch thy hope turn back to me:
    To the good Queen, possess'd him with a scruple
  FALSTAFF. Fore God, you have here a goodly dwelling and rich.
     And hasten your return. [Exit Oswald.] No, no, my lord!
    Which still hath been both grave and prosperous
    Can make seem pleasing to her tender years?
    He means to recompense the pains you take
  SECOND LORD. Why, Apemantus?
    Where I confess I slept not, but profess
    Whose double tongue may with a mortal touch
    Who, but for dreaming on this fond exploit,
  RODERIGO. How do you mean, removing of him?
  PROSPERO. Be conected;
    Is this the witness, friar?

    naturally inherit of his father, he hath, like lean, sterile, and
    Is that she will not add to her damnation
    The happy man; whether defect of judgment,
    Corrupters of my faith! you shall no more
    For one to thrust his hand between his teeth,
  HECTOR. Good night, sweet Lord Menelaus.
    Yet I am richer than my base accusers
  FLAVIUS. If you suspect my husbandry or falsehood,
ACT_4|SC_1
  BASSANIO. Portia, forgive me this enforced wrong;
  ENOBARBUS. Not he that himself is not so; which is Mark Antony. He
  At board, he fed not for my urging it;
    I have a strange infirmity, which is nothing
  CLOWN. The Black Prince, sir; alias, the Prince of Darkness; alias,
    Go to.
  FORD. Sir, I hear you are a scholar-I will be brief with you  
    four o'clock.
    As they themselves would owe them.
    I have no joy of this contract to-night.
    -a man of my kidney. Think of that-that am as subject to
    Since I have made my friends at peace on earth.
                            A SONG
  POMPEY. I spy comfort; I cry bail. Here's a gentleman, and a friend
    How I shall take her from her father's house;
  SOOTHSAYER. Your will?
    And, in a word, but even now worth this,
    And, in the closing of some glorious day,
  FIRST SENATOR. It requires swift foot.                  Exeunt
    Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
    Cannot be quiet searce a breathing while
    As doth that orbed continent the fire
    Which, being suffer'd, rivers cannot quench.
  SHEPHERD. My business, sir, is to the King.
     Which of you shall we say doth love us most?
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    To book our dead, and then to bury them;

  TIMON. Five thousand drops pays that. What yours? and yours?
    More, she's a traitor; and Camillo is
  SPEED. 'Item: She hath more hair than wit'-


    Doll Tearsheet she by name, and her espouse.

    Invite my Lords of Salisbury and Warwick
    With an attent ear, till I may deliver
  I bought, and brought up to attend my sons.
    I'll use that tongue I have; if wit flow from't
    'A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.'

    I will not sleep, Hortensio, till I see her;
    Hath been enacted through your enmity;
    Were most impertinent.

    considering the weather, a taller man than I will take cold.
                     Re-enter BOATSWAIN
    And sheath'd their swords for lack of argument.
  KATHARINE. No so, my lord; a twelvemonth and a day
  MARIA. You Still wrangle with her, Boyet, and she strikes at the
  SHALLOW. Sir Hugh, persuade me not; I will make a Star
           Enter the guard
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    And hark, what noise the general makes! To him!
    I do not see them bleed.
    Anon his Thisby must be answered,
    I've heard him utter to his son-in-law,
         And claim her with a loving kiss.'
    deny him.
    Where the infectious pestilence did reign,
    And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;
    That thus you do exclaim you'll go with him?
  KING. Lovell!  
  BRUTUS. Sit thee down, Clitus. Slaying is the word:
  HERMIONE. To tell he longs to see his son were strong;
  THIRD WITCH. Scale of dragon, tooth of wolf,
    Against the panting sides of his poor jade
  PORTIA. A gentle riddance. Draw the curtains, go.
    Shook down my mellow hangings, nay, my leaves,

The Forum.
  BASTARD. Some bastards too.  
  WARWICK. Father, the Duke hath told the truth;
  MRS. FORD. Why, it is my maid's aunt of Brainford.
    Than all the island kings-disarm great Hector.
    Does not become a man; 'tis much to blame.
  PISTOL. I do relent; what would thou more of man?
    What should the wars do with these jigging fools?
  GLOUCESTER. The widow likes it not, for she looks very sad.
    Before the King will grant her humble suit.
                Re-enter OLIVIA. With VIOLA
  Edm. I shall offend, either to detain or give it. The contents, as
  SUFFOLK. Words sweetly plac'd and modestly directed.
  JAQUES. Go thou with me, and let me counsel thee.  
    Bade me come smiling and cross-garter'd to you,
  West. My liege, this haste was hot in question
    with finding a bird's nest, shows it his companion, and he steals
    and when I cannot live any longer, I will do as I may. That is my
    As I have given out him. My sons, I must
    And with your puissant arm renew their feats.
    This is the day which in King Edward's time  
    That neither, singly, can be manifested
  GONZALO. And were the king on't, what would I do?
                                   [Sound still with the shouts]
  GLOUCESTER. Look back, defend thee; here are enemies.
  FIRST MURDERER. Here comes my lord.
                     134
  CLOWN. I have seen two such sights, by sea and by land! But I am
    And cannot live but to thy shame, unless
    You owe money here besides, Sir John, for your diet and
    His noble cousin is right welcome hither;
    What, art thou come? On, gentlemen, away;
    For three performers are the file when all
            Re-enter PUCK, and BOTTOM with an ass's head
    Setting it up to fear the birds of prey,
    You charge not in your spleen a noble person
  Glend. I cannot blame him. At my nativity
  IAGO.                       I mock you? No, by heaven.
    As much as ever Coriolanus did.
  CASSIO. Reputation, reputation, reputation! O, I have lost my
    And, now I fall, thy tough commixture melts,
    Thy name well fits thy faith, thy faith thy name.
    Retain that dear perfection which he owes
    Of breaches, ambuscadoes, Spanish blades,
    Welcome, Aemilius. What's the news from Rome?
    Our bending author hath pursu'd the story,
    That strumpet Fortune, that usurping John!
  CORIOLANUS. Not of a woman's tenderness to be
    Made glory base, and sovereignty a slave,
    loves not the common people.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    More of this matter cannot I report.
  CARDINAL. [Reads] 'Item: It is further agreed between them that the
  MESSENGER. Madam, madam-
    sailor breaks a biscuit.
    Who chants a doleful hymn to his own death,
  BOLINGBROKE. My heart will sigh when I miscall it so,
    so good a wife and so sweet a lady.
    remains loyal to his vow, and your increasing in love
  PANTHINO. Tut, man, I mean thou'lt lose the flood, and, in losing
    Which art my nearest and dearest enemy'
    hundred of them.
         Enter soldiers, bearing the body of JOHN TALBOT
                     13
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  ANTONIO. Hang, cur; hang, you whoreson, insolent noisemaker;  
    Know Banquo was your enemy.

    There is a remedy, approv'd, set down,
  RODERIGO. Is that true? Why then Othello and Desdemona return again
  Plods dully on, to bear that weight in me,
    And so, most joyfully, we take our leave.
    Never excuse; for when the players are all dead there need none

                    Enter a SOLDIER, running
    When he perceiv'd me shrink and on my knee,
  EARL OF SALISBURY
  ALEXANDER. This man, lady, hath robb'd many beasts of their
    there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties
    I would have been a breakfast to the beast
  DOLL. Come, you rogue, come; bring me to a justice.
    Here comes Sir Richard Ratcliff and the Duke.
  Rom. Good morrow, father.
    monstrous matter of feast, which worthily deserved noting.
                                                   [Tearing her hair]
    Her enemies' marks upon me. I do love
  PROSPERO. Thou liest, malignant thing. Hast thou forgot
    Mark Antony, so well beloved of Caesar,
  OTHELLO. 'Tis pitiful, but yet Iago knows
    In all humility unto his Highness;

  PAROLLES. There's little can be said in 't; 'tis against the rule
    You see what mischief, and what murder too,
  CHARMIAN. 'Twas merry when
    Endur'd all weathers.
     This judgement of the heavens, that makes us tremble

    one night here to be her wooer.
    And only live by gazing.
  Rom. Ay me! sad hours seem long.
    So be thy fortune in this royal fight!
    If thou wert sensible of courtesy,  

    7. DUKE OF SUFFOLK, in his robe of estate, his coronet on
  CROMWELL. The heaviest and the worst
    English out of his wits.
    If haply you my father do suspect
    Isis, I beseech thee!
  Cap. Wife. Tybalt, my cousin! O my brother's child!
    The first that ever touch'd him- he was carried
    house.  
  FERDINAND, son to the King of Naples
    a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and
    peace; ten times more dishonourable ragged than an old fac'd
    And like her true nobility she has
    Out, rascal dogs!                [Beats and drives them out]
    If there be rule in unity itself,
    Undoing all, as all had never been!
    And on his more advice we pardon him.
  DUMAIN. As upright as the cedar.
            'Whiles the eye of man did woo me,
    Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms;
  Ham. Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
  And this fair gentlewoman, her sister here,
  JOHN. The nobility think scorn to go in leather aprons.
    She should in ground unsanctified have lodg'd
  BEROWNE. Why, then, three-farthing worth of silk.
  ALEXANDER IDEN, a Kentish gentleman
    not kissed your three fingers so oft, which now again you are
    Before I drew this gallant head of war,
    Lest the wise world should look into your moan,
    While they do tend the profit of the land.
    For there I'll ship them all for Ireland.
  ROBIN]  Mistress Page, remember you your cue.
  Loving offenders thus I will excuse ye,
    You that are thus so tender o'er his follies
  IAGO, ensign to Othello
SCENE V.
    And tribunes with their tongues doom men to death.
    he has beat my bones. I will buy nine sparrows for a penny, and
     Re-enter EXECUTIONERS, With cord, irons, etc.
  Pol. Ophelia, walk you here.- Gracious, so please you,
    And my poor soldiers tell me yet ere night
  DESDEMONA. All's one. Good faith, how foolish are our minds!
    The loss, the gain, the ord'ring on't, is all
    On Tuesday noon, or night, on Wednesday morn.
    God grant we never may have need of you!
    To be controll'd in that he frankly gave.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  That to his subject lends not some small glory,
  KING. Ha, 'tis he indeed.
    Who knows if one her women, being corrupted
  This is the fairy land. O spite of spites!

    For the whole state, I would put mine armour on,

    He may a little grieve at.
           Enter TIMON, in a rage, FLAMINIUS following
    Masters, I charge you in the Prince's name accuse these men.
  "Tis dinner time' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he.

SCENE II.
    To line his enterprise; but if you go-

    Lead their successes as we wish our own,
    We are again forsworn in will and error.
      Caesar goes up to the Senate House, the rest follow.
  MRS. FORD. Sir John! Art thou there, my deer, my male deer.

    Her father means she shall be all in white;
    That Caesar looks so sad.
    Their mercy at the price of one fair word,
  Bene. This looks not like a nuptial.
  JAQUES. I thank it. More, I prithee, more. I can suck melancholy
              At his heels a stone.
     Make thy words faith'd? No. What I should deny
    A freckl'd whelp, hag-born-not honour'd with
    Committed by your person and your followers
     Truly, however else.
    rose both at an instant and fought a long hour by Shrewsbury
    you.
                                          Exeunt TROILUS and CRESSIDA
    bargain; for he was never yet a breaker of proverbs. He will give
Enter Caesar, in his nightgown.
     appertains to us both. I think our father will hence to-night.
    Why, so didst thou. Seem they religious?
    Than is my deed to my most painted word.

    unknown- to lay apart their particular functions and wonder at
    And am I last that knows it? O, thou thinkest
  ORLEANS. We are enow yet living in the field
  FLORIZEL. See, your guests approach.
    Moves like a ghost. Thou sure and firm-set earth,
  Pity me then, and wish I were renewed,
    The stiff-borne action. What hath then befall'n,
    Lest you shall chance to whip your information
  ACHILLES. How now, thou core of envy!
  Guil. The Queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit
  BOYET. Do not curst wives hold that self-sovereignty
    captain, the heart, who, great and puff'd up with this retinue,
    I never gave them condign punishment.  
    The chafed boar, the mountain lioness,
    And yet we ventur'd, for the gain propos'd
    picture of Nobody.
    The cost that did conclude it.
  Glou. Pursue him, ho! Go after.        [Exeunt some Servants].
    When the man dies, let the inheritance
    What then remains, we being thus arriv'd
    And, in the doing of the deed of kind,
    doubt but to hear them say it is a sweet comedy. No more words.
    best use of eyes to see the way of blindness! I am sure hanging's  
  Ham. He did comply with his dug before he suck'd it. Thus has he,

    I see you stand like greyhounds in the slips,
    With such a suff'ring, such a deadly life,
    extravagant spirit, full of forms, figures, shapes, objects,
    A thousand businesses are brief in hand,  
  GONZALO. Faith, sir, you need not fear. When we were boys,
    Go, pluck him by the elbow; I must speak with him.
  DOLL. Hang yourself, you muddy conger, hang yourself!  
     here with him this night.
    Suppos'd sincere and holy in his thoughts,
  BIONDELLO. I pray the gods she may, with all my heart.
           'When griping grief the heart doth wound,

    day.
  PROVOST. No, my good lord; it was by private message.
    When great leaves fall, then winter is at hand;
  KING RICHARD. Catesby, fly to the Duke.
                Enter the LORD MAYOR and his train
    powder me and eat me too to-morrow. 'Sblood, 'twas time to
  CLAUDIO. Nay, hear me, Isabel.
    that I love him?'"
 Exit
    them to their trial-the bubbles are out,

                            with officers  
    This is the tragic tale of Philomel
    Says that this deed is chronicled in hell.
    husband were dead; I'll speak it before the best lord, I
    niece give me this prerogative of speech'-
  JULIA. What think'st thou of the gentle Proteus?
  LODOVICO. As you shall prove us, praise us.
    That very frankly he confess'd his treasons,
    Trimm'd like a younker prancing to his love!
    She, an attending star, scarce seen a light.  
  '"And, lo, behold these talents of their hair,
    When I to feast expressly am forbid;
  Not once vouchsafe to hide my will in thine?
  Corn. What mean'st by this?


    So thou prevent'st his scythe, and crooked knife.
  LYSANDER. This lion is a very fox for his valour.
    bar the door upon your own liberty, if you deny your griefs to
    good Sir John, as you have one eye upon my follies, as you
    Which gently laid my knighthood on my shoulder
    Life every man holds dear; but the dear man

  CAESAR. Nay, blush not, Cleopatra; I approve
    Whoever wins, on that side shall I lose:
    I will tell no tales.
  COUNTESS. Then have I substance too.
    What, shall King Henry be a pupil still,
  LAUNCE. If her liquor be good, she shall; if she will not, I will;
    song. Would God would serve the world so all the year! We'd find
  KATHERINA. I chafe you, if I tarry; let me go.
    That goddess blind,

    not a counterfeit stone, not a ribbon, glass, pomander, brooch,
    Thou wear a lion's hide! Doff it for shame,
  Hor. O, my dear lord!
  PROTEUS. That they are out by lease.
  ACHILLES. I know that, fool.

  RAMBURES, French Lord
    I did not see your Grace. Humbly on my knee  
    To blush and beautify the cheek again.

    pass of pate; there's another garmet for't.
    Indeed the instant action, a cause on foot-
    That not your trespass but my madness speaks.
  BUCKINGHAM. Will not King Richard let me speak with
    affect company nor is he fit for't indeed.
    Left and abandoned of his velvet friends:
    you.
    Both from his enterprise and from the world;
    Sent back like Hallowmas or short'st of day.
    qualities.
  CHARLES. Meantime look gracious on thy prostrate thrall.
    Where great Aufidius lies. Is he in Antium?
    Look, here's the warrant, Claudio, for thy death;
    Grants scarce distinction. Thou wilt write to Antony?
    Till he be brought unto the Empress' face
    Not to seem senseless of the bob; if not,

  NESTOR. So, so, we draw together.                              Exit
  CLOWN. Madman, thou errest. I say there is no darkness but

    And notwithstanding all this loss of blood-
    You must not put another scandal on him,
    any of us all.
    Unlike young men, whom Aristode thought
  Fool. Thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst been wise.
    And wound her honour with this diffidence.
    fairer; for where an unclean mind carries virtuous qualities,
  BERTRAM. But follows it, my lord, to bring me down

    Shall seize this prey out of his father's hands.
  THIRD SERVANT. Why, he is so made on here within as if he were son  
    Which renders good for bad, blessings for curses.  
  FIRST CITIZEN. Well, sir, what answer made the belly?
    Right ill-dispos'd in brawl ridiculous,
    As every present time doth boast itself
  The beast that bears me, tired with my woe,
  BIONDELLO. I told him that your father was at Venice,
    I doubt not, I, but we shall soon persuade
  And now to tempt all liberty procured.
    That promises moe thousands: honour's train
                       Enter ERPINGHAM  
    If I speak like a captain:
    And live alone as secret as I may.
  ISABELLA. Nay, but it is not so.
  QUINTUS. What, art thou fallen? What subtle hole is this,
    And many Jasons come in quest of her.
    Upon the altar at Saint Edmundsbury;
    'Tis like you'll prove a jolly surly groom
  QUEEN. Fie, coward woman and soft-hearted wretch,
    Go thou to Juliet, help to deck up her.
  ORLANDO. I pray you mar no more of my verses with reading them
    To me, your friend, than any.
    deceiv'd by him that in such intelligence hath seldom fail'd.
    siege to the honesty of this Ford's wife; use your art of
    And, by the ground they hide, I judge their number
  EVANS. No, it is false, if it is a pick-purse.
    Enter Edgar, armed, at the third sound, a Trumpet before him.


    At difference in thee. Out of that I'll work
    Of limping Winter treads, even such delight
    By long and vehement suit I was seduc'd
  When my love swears that she is made of truth,
                              Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.
                                Exeunt all but QUEEN and SUFFOLK
    Some horrible conceit. If thou dost love me,
    would do my liking. In the meantime let me be that I am, and seek
    best way is to creep under his gaberdine; there is no
ACT III. SCENE 2.
  RIVERS. O Pomfret, Pomfret! O thou bloody prison,
  Osw. So please you-                                      Exit.
    Ditch-deliver'd by a drab,
  LORENZO. Leave holloaing, man. Here!
  ANTONY. Speak to me home; mince not the general tongue;
  FOURTH SOLDIER. No.
    death,
    That in submission will return to us.

  Lear. Out of my sight!
    the time itself unsorted, and your whole plot too light for the
    The worst is this, that at so slender warning

    It had been as a gap in our great feast  
    As give a crutch to th' dead. But our Count-Cardinal
  Gon. Hear, me, my lord.  
  GLOUCESTER. I did not kill your husband.
  MACBETH. I'll go no more.
  HOSTESS. O the Lord, that Sir John were come! He would make this a
    And stir them up against a mightier task.
  MALVOLIO. Ah, ha! does she so?
    That may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
    But there, where I have garner'd up my heart,
    The past-proportion of his infinite,
  Alb. The let-alone lies not in your good will.
    I would be all, against the worst may happen.
  SECOND BROTHER. For this from stiller seats we came,
    With twenty mortal murthers on their crowns,
    least, if you take it as a pleasure to you in being so. You blame
    And bring thee forth brave brood.
  Sets down her babe and makes all swift dispatch
    I cannot name the disease; and it is caught
      PERSONAGES clad in white robes, wearing on their
  BARDOLPH. Would I were with him, wheresome'er he is, either in
  Cor. 'Tis known before. Our preparation stands
  Fal. Peace, good pintpot. Peace, good tickle-brain.- Harry, I do
    opinion.
    Thus in plain terms: your father hath consented
  Nurse. Even so lies she,  
  OLIVIA. Even what it please my lord, that shall become him.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Commit the war of white and damask in
    But dare all imminence that gods and men  
                            Enter CURTIS
    And know the office that belongs to such.
    Should yet say 'Sir, no going.' Verily,
    Kneel down before him, hang upon his gown;
    Temptations have since then been born to 's, for
    Then, on the other side, I check'd my friends.
  MIRANDA. If you'll sit down,
    The breath of garlic-eaters!

  Tyb. Why, uncle, 'tis a shame.
    I do applaud thy spirit, Valentine,
    Their fears of hostile strokes, their aches, losses,
    And there is in this business more than nature
  FORD. Well, he's not here I seek for.
    O learn to read what silent love hath writ,
  TITUS. O gracious Emperor! O gentle Aaron!
    The quality of her passion shall require,
    Thy huntress' name that my full life doth sway.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Give me this maid your daughter?
    The tidings comes that they are all arriv'd.
  DEMETRIUS. A mote will turn the balance, which Pyramus, which
  The world will be thy widow and still weep,

  DESDEMONA. To whom, my lord? with whom? how am I false?

    Is led on in the conduct of my will;
    Of the imperial theme-I thank you, gentlemen.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
     He'll shape his old course in a country new.
  LADY MACBETH. Thou'rt mad to say it!
    greatest afflictions, say, that I cannot pleasure such an
  I conjure thee to leave me and be gone.
  IAGO. What in the contrary?
    Heaven prosper the right! What weapons is he?
    Came smiling and did bathe their hands in it.
Navarre. The King's park
     Call not your stocks for me. I serve the King;
    Then others, for the breath of words respect,
    But break my heart, for I must hold my tongue!
    That men must lay their murthers on your neck.
    His wife, his babes, and all unfortunate souls
  Counsel may stop awhile what will not stay;  
    To be spoke to but by the Recorder.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    And yet, thy wealth being forfeit to the state,
    My pity hath been balm to heal their wounds,
  Prince. Give it me. What, is it in the case?
    I might have look'd upon my queen's full eyes,
    You are still crossing it. Sirs, let 't alone;
    To swear him in the justice of his cause.
  Kent. Who hath he left behind him general?
    But as the fierce vexation of a dream.
        Fight. Excursions. Enter KING, QUEEN, and others
  And feeds from home; poor I am but his stale.
    And poor in worth! Now shall we see to-morrow-
  KING PHILIP. 'Tis true, fair daughter, and this blessed day

                           Re-enter SUFFOLK
    Tamer than sleep, fonder than ignorance,


  TRINCULO. Thy Grace shall have it.
    I have confess'd her, and I know her virtue.

                                                      Exit CLOWN
    Of angry eyes, not comforted to live
    O upright, just, and true-disposing God,
    He's mine or I am his. Mine emulation
    mind than a hard hand.

  BAPTISTA. Now fair befall thee, good Petruchio!
    I love them as they weigh-
  KING HENRY. Thou dost thy office fairly. Turn thee back,
    Wherein they say you shine, Your sun of parts
    Hath stopp'd the passage where thy words should enter.
    And send to darkness all that stop me. Come,
Another part of the field
    Out of his keeper's arms, even so my limbs,
1605
  GLOUCESTER. They do me wrong, and I will not endure it.  
  FORD. O good sir!
  MARCIUS. Say, has our general met the enemy?
    Where foxes, geese; you are no surer, no,
    To seek the light of truth; while truth the while
    No, by the flame of yonder glorious heaven,
    reputation and profit, was better both ways.
  ROSS. He hath not money for these Irish wars,
    a fat pair of gallows; for if I hang, old Sir John hangs with me,
    It is writ to Jaquenetta.
    one according to his cue.
    To visit him to-morrow or next day.


    But fearing since how it might work, hath sent
      My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
    Sith that the justice of your title to him
    Nor a musician as I seem to be;
    And for his own advantage.

  TIMON. O blessed breeding sun, draw from the earth

  PAULINA. From all dishonesty he can: in this,
    Behold yourself so by a son disdain'd;

    To heal Rome's harms and wipe away her woe!
    'Twould prove the verity of certain words
  OCTAVIA, sister to Caesar and wife to Antony
    light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows will bring
    I knowing all my peril, thou no art.
  King. A hundred thousand rebels die in this!
  Citizens of Verona; Gentlemen and Gentlewomen of both houses;
  POINS. Yes, faith; and let it be an excellent good thing.
  BERTRAM. She never saw it.
    [Sir Nathaniel retires] There, an't shall please you, a foolish
    And then to purge his fear, I'll be thy death.
    The sug'red game before thee. But myself,
    Methinks I hear hither your husband's drum;
    extravagancy. But I perceive in you so excellent a touch of


    taken yourself with the manner.
    Doth like a poisonous mineral gnaw my inwards,

    What if my house be troubled with a rat,
    He had a black mouth that said other of him.
  Claud. Before God! and in my mind, very wise.
    that, and other precious, precious jewels. I would my daughter
    The breast of heaven, I did present myself
    Katherine his daughter, and with her to dowry
    devil wrath: one unperfectness shows me another, to make me
    And thou hast given me most bitter terms.
    And sit at chiefest stern of public weal.             Exeunt
    Of blessed sanctuary! Not for all this land
Rousillon. The COUNT'S palace
    That's the scene that I would see, which will be merely a dumb
  ISABELLA. O, I do fear thee, Claudio; and I quake,

                     5
  Cap. Hang thee, young baggage! disobedient wretch!  

    Ha!
    I be so able as now.
    And pay thy life thou owest me for my horse.
    whether one Captain Dumain be i' th' camp, a Frenchman; what his
  VIOLA. I think it well, my lord.

    Before this outdar'd dastard? Ere my tongue  
  FERDINAND. No, precious creature;
  NORTHUMBERLAND. No more; but that you read
    There in the full convive we; afterwards,
    Make me a curse like this.
  FIRST MURDERER. When he opens his purse to give us our
    Or I of his, my lord, than you of mine.
    You had a bastard by Polixenes,
  PAROLLES. This is hard and undeserved measure, my lord.
  TIMON. Dues! Whence are you?
    I shall be forsworn- which is a great argument of falsehood- if I

    I should but teach him how to tell my story,
    That ever did contain a thing of worth.
  AJAX. I say, the proclamation.
  JAQUENETTA. Of Costard.
    Win upon power and throw forth greater themes
    will do anything, Nerissa, ere I will be married to a sponge.
  PAULINA. Nay, rather, good my lords, be second to me.
    If thou have power to raise him, bring him hither,
    Sir Valentine, your father is in good health.
    Last night 'twas on mine arm; I kiss'd it.
    O child! O child! my soul, and not my child!


    As Anna to the Queen of Carthage was-
    London.                                               Exeunt
  And which the spirit? Who deciphers them?
  CORIN. Our master and mistress seeks you; come away, away.
  Lady. Here comes your father. Tell him so yourself,  
    He shortens four years of my son's exile;
  ANTONY. I shall remember.
    And treats of Tereus' treason and his rape;
    And an eternal curse fall on you! Let me know.
  EXECUTIONER. I hope your warrant will bear out the deed.
    How it goes here. It fits us therefore ripely
    And find it out by proclamation;

  LIEUTENANT. The gaudy, blabbing, and remorseful day
    That there should be small love amongst these sweet knaves,
    A pouncet box, which ever and anon

    Has thou not spirit to curse thine enemy?
    fishermen's boots with me; I warrant they would whip me
    The grave of your deserving; Rome must know
    And so, good rest.
Scene III.

    Despoiled of your honour in your life,
    Look what a wardrobe here is for thee!
    That her wide walls encompass'd but one man?
    This sway of motion, this commodity,
    Thou dost deliver more or less than truth,
Rousillon. The COUNT'S palace
    officers; but truly, for mine own part, if I were as tedious as a
  So far from home into my deeds to pry,
    Plantagenet, I will; and like thee, Nero,
    O Thou, whose captain I account myself,
  Corn. What means your Grace?
    shall know it. Though you have put me into darkness and given
    Beyond the infinite and boundless reach
    Some words there grew 'twixt Somerset and me;
    Think on my words.                              Exit PISANIO
    Told the sad story of my father's death,

SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    And the gods yield you for't!
    He gave it to a commoner o' th' camp,
  CLOWN. Ay, sir, we are some of her trappings.
  Prince. What sayest thou to a hare, or the melancholy of Moor
     His countenance for the battle, which being done,

    To have my praise for this, perform a part
    Ascribe we all. When, without stratagem,

    Over your friend that loves you.
    That was expected by the Dauphin here
    He calls for wine: 'A health!' quoth he, as if
  MOWBRAY. However God or fortune cast my lot,
    My breast can better brook thy dagger's point
    you.                           Exeunt [Dogberry and Verges].
    Yet, by your leave, the wind was very high,
  HECTOR. O, pardon; I offend.
    And, noble uncle, I beseech your Grace
    Consuming it with speaking!
    With the rich worth of your virginity.
    Let me, upon my knee, prevail in this.
  ROSALIND. Is it a man?
    Cut with her golden oars the silver stream
    As quarrelous as the weasel. Nay, you must
    To thee I pray: sweet Clifford, pity me.
             Nature presently distill'd
    Even like thy chastity. O cursed, cursed slave!
  Glou. He did bewray his practice, and receiv'd
    With all licentious measure, making your wills
    To Athens will I bear my folly back,
    Till that Bellona's bridegroom, lapp'd in proof,
    you hear, sir? To leave frivolous circumstances, I pray you tell
  EXETER. The doubt is that he will seduce the rest.
  DUKE SENIOR. Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table.
    with your hat penthouse-like o'er the shop of your eyes, with
  SICINIUS. And affecting one sole throne,
    His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
  KING HENRY. That is to see how deep my grave is made;
  Then how when nature calls thee to be gone,
    Or bathe my dying honour in the blood

    But keep our course, though the rough wind say no,
    the world slip;-we shall ne'er be younger.
SCENE II.
    Why, what tumultuous clamour have we here?
    With drunken spilth of wine, when every room
    And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
  Other Fairies attending their King and Queen
    None durst come near for fear of sudden death.  
    As too triumphing, how mine enemies
  MACBETH. Well, say, sir.
    A queen, and daughter to a king, inter me.
    look, a pleasing eye, and a most noble carriage; and, as I think,
    I do pronounce him in that very shape
    He shall but bear them as the ass bears gold,
  Hor. Nay, good my lord -
  CELIA. He hath bought a pair of cast lips of Diana. A nun of
                                  Exeunt CORIOLANUS and AUFIDIUS
    From gen'ral excrement- each thing's a thief.
    An honorable murtherer, if you will,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Thou mayst be damned for that wicked deed!
  Like as the waves make towards the pebbled shore,
      Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
    I am afraid, methinks, to hear you tell it.
    With manacles through our streets, or else
    is dirt to him; and, I warrant, Helen, to change, would give an
  YORK. Now, York, or never, steel thy fearful thoughts

    Only for his possessions are so huge,
  MACBETH. [Aside.] Time, thou anticipatest my dread exploits.
                    Re-enter FALSTAFF and the JUSTICES  
    Of Cneius Pompey's, besides what hotter hours,
    For to a vision so apparent rumour
  TRINCULO. 'Lord' quoth he! That a monster should be such

  DAUPHIN. Shall we go send them dinners and fresh suits,
  Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
    Have blown me full of maggot ostentation.
  QUEEN. Whiles yet the dew's on ground, gather those flowers;
  MRS. FORD. Why?
  EMILIA.           Nay, lay thee down and roar;
  SHEPHERD. Would I had been by to have help'd the old man!
    By Sinel's death I know I am Thane of Glamis;
    And publish the occasion of our arms.
    Witness this wretched stump, witness these crimson lines;
  MENTEITH. Who then shall blame
                          SCENE 3.
    own hearing.
    sir;
  WIDOW. Right, I mean you.
    And therefore is she born to make black fair.
    When from the mountain-top Pisanio show'd thee,
    Who had but newly entertain'd revenge,
  Buy thou a rope, and bring it home to me.
    There's toys abroad-anon I'll tell thee more.
  SPEED. You mistook, sir; I say she did nod; and you ask me if she
    Go, vanish into air, away!                      Exeunt Musicians.
    And, ere our coming, see thou shake the bags
  TAILOR.  [Reads]  'With a small compass'd cape'-
  And 'gainst my self a lawful plea commence:
    Tester I'll have in pouch when thou shalt lack,
    And yet, to my teen be it spoken, I have but four-
  Nor taste, nor smell, desire to be invited
    none; and the fine is (for the which I may go the finer), I will  
  BERKELEY. Mistake me not, my lord; 'tis not my meaning
    To tell you what I was, since my conversion
    We will go walk a little in the orchard,
                 Then take thine auld cloak about thee."  
  Or ten times happier be it ten for one,
    Stood heir to the first. Now, sir, be judge yourself
    To seek her on the mountains near to Milford;
  ARMADO. I love thee.
  CONSTABLE. Swear by her foot, that she may tread out the oath.
  VALERIA. Not out of doors!
    Whom I myself embrace to set him free.'  
               Noise within. Enter WARWICK, SALISBURY,
  SECOND BANDIT. It is nois'd he hath a mass of treasure.
    To bathe my lips upon; this hand, whose touch,
  CORIN. Who calls?
  ANTONIO. And what of him? Did he take interest?

  FLUELLEN. Aunchient Pistol, I do partly understand your meaning.
     that's neither known of thee nor knows thee!
    I will make it felony to drink small beer. All the realm shall be
  SMITH. [Aside] 'A must needs; for beggary is valiant.
    That won three fields of Sultan Solyman,
    Of noisome musty chaff. He said 'twas folly,
    Tell us what Sinon hath bewitch'd our ears,
    I will no more enforce mine office on you;
    Know'st me not by my clothes?
      brothers.
    She must, the saints must have her-yet a virgin;
  Pol. Do you know me, my lord?
  FEEBLE. A woman's tailor, sir.
  SHALLOW. Tut, a pin! this shall be answer'd.
  TRINCULO. And this.
  KING HENRY. Stay, gentle Margaret, and hear me speak.
    That of yourself which you yet know not of.
    Confound and swallow navigation up,
    Who am prepar'd against your territories,
             And the owner of it blest
    An hour.
  ANTONY. Caesar?
  Speak, old Aegeon, if thou be'st the man
  Alb. Knows he the wickedness?
  APEMANTUS. Ay; to see meat fill knaves and wine heat fools.
  LEPIDUS. Upon condition Publius shall not live,
  VALENTINE. Madam and mistress, a thousand good morrows.
    To stay you from election.
  MACBETH. Come, we'll to sleep. My strange and self-abuse  
    title, which is within a very little of nothing.
    I'll pay it instantly with all my heart.
    never need to understand any thing; for 'tis not good that
    Or feed upon such nice and waterish diet,  
    And yet we strike not, but securely perish.
    To speak your bosom freely.
    of his several friends.
  BRUTUS. Has said enough.
  Could witness it, for he was with me then;
    That those whom you call'd fathers did beget you.

    This many summers in a sea of glory;
    Tak'st up the Princess by that forced baseness
    Unless it have a false interpreter.
    I bade her, if her fortunes ever stood
  SICINIUS. Noble Menenius,
    fire,
  Fool.   That lord that counsell'd thee
    By crying comfort from a hollow breast,
    For our best act. If we shall stand still,
  DOLL. Nut-hook, nut-hook, you lie. Come on; I'll tell thee what,
    For speedy aid; wherein our dearest friend
  CAMILLO. He tells her something
    can hardly make distinction of our hands.
  FALSTAFF. And you, sir! Would you speak with me?
    I have hope to Eve, and am prepar'd to die.
  BIANCA. In time I may believe, yet I mistrust.
    And from the cross-row plucks the letter G,
    And think of each thing well.  [Aside to ARIEL]  Come

    To the which place a poor sequest'red stag,
    By the heart's still rhetoric disclosed with eyes,
    That men are merriest when they are from home.
    As, I confess, it is my nature's plague
  CRESSIDA. They say all lovers swear more performance than they are
    My Antony is away.
  MENAS. True, sir; she was the wife of Caius Marcellus.

  ANTONY. I am satisfied.

    This act, so evilly borne, shall cool the hearts
  LUCILIUS. Here, at your lordship's service.
    figure in rhetoric that drink, being pour'd out of cup into a
    With such austerity as longeth to a father.
    Being barber'd ten times o'er, goes to the feast,
    Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
    Is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf,
    To be to thee this night a torchbearer
    But that her flight prevented it, she had
    Full well shalt thou perceive how much I dare.

  Hot. Nor shall it, Harry; for the hour is come
    world, or in France, or in England!
    cause; and that, I hope, is an unmeasurable distance.
  SHYLOCK. I am content.
    palfrey. It is a theme as fluent as the sea: turn the sands into
  TIMON. That's a deed thou't die for.  
  KING RICHARD. Stanley, he is your wife's son: well, look
    abused, begin to heave the gorge, disrelish and abhor the Moor;
    Leave gormandizing; know the grave doth gape

WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  OFFICER.  [Reads]  'Hermione, Queen to the worthy Leontes, King of
    To be the same in thine own act and valor

  DOLL. What says your Grace?
     Thou out of heaven's benediction com'st
  SOME SPEAK. What does his lordship mean?
    But I'll acquaint our duteous citizens
    In penalty alike; and 'tis not hard, I think,
                     Enter SERVANT
                        Enter a GENTLEWOMAN
    Made promise to the doctor. Now thus it rests:
    To cry 'Good joy.' Good joy, my lord and lady!

  HIPPOLYTA. Four days will quickly steep themselves in night;
    you, kill his best friend, Cleitus.
    She is not fourteen. How long is it now
    Hath told you Caesar was ambitious;
  DUKE SENIOR. Art thou thus bolden'd, man, by thy distress?

    And let it not displease thee, good Bianca,
    And bring our Emperor gently in thy hand,
    In hot digestion of this cormorant war-
    Is now dishonoured by this new marriage.
    And bid the cheek be ready with a blush
                   Athens. ANTONY'S house
  CAPUCIUS, Ambassador from the Emperor Charles V
    To call hers (exquisite) in question more.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    And he that brings his head unto the King
    One hour's storm will drown the fragrant meads,
      About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,
    The blood upon your visage dries; 'tis time
    by all pretty oaths that are not dangerous, if you break one jot
                       Enter AENEAS
  BEROWNE. For the ass to the Jude; give it him- Jud-as, away.
  KING HENRY. Now, welcome, Kate; and bear me witness all,
  CLEOPATRA. Is this certain?
  O lest your true love may seem false in this,
    Here comes the good Macduff.
    A baseness to write fair, and labour'd much
  PAULINA. Not so hot, good sir;
     Being the very fellow which of late
    As you malign our senators for that
    Learned and reverend fathers of his order,
    To be a secondary at control,
  AGRIPPA. O, Antony! O thou Arabian bird!
    Now will we take some order in the town,
  Whether the horse by him became his deed,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Sweet hearts, we shall be rich ere we depart,
  Mess. He is very near by this. He was not three leagues off when I

  MACBETH. And Thane of Cawdor too. Went it not so?

  CASSIUS. I do not think it good.
  POLIXENES. How, my lord!
    And wheresoe'er we went, like Juno's swans,
    That Tiber trembled underneath her banks
    Holden at Bury the first of this next month.
  MENENIUS. I think not so.
    And then to Leonato's we will go.
                          Enter PUCK behind
    And grieve his spirit that dares not challenge it.
    With this night's revels and expire the term
  GROOM. Hail, royal Prince!
  Claud. Nay then, give him another staff; this last was broke cross.
    And bids me speak of nothing but despair.
    For that which thou hast sworn to do amiss
    green-sickness; and then, when they marry, they get wenches. They
      thy soul.
  FITZWATER. 'Tis very true; you were in presence then,
    in a parlous state, shepherd.
    world, an a man could light on them, would take her with all
    pleasure us.
     Kind gods, forgive me that, and prosper him!
    grows into an ill opinion.
  MAYOR. Fie, lords! that you, being supreme magistrates,
    To no apparent likelihood of breach,
  CASSANDRA. It is the purpose that makes strong the vow;
    To keep her chamber.
  That she hath thee is of my wailing chief,
    Like to a bubbling fountain stirr'd with wind,
  PROSPERO. Ay, with a twink.
  CLOTEN. His majesty bids you welcome. Make pastime with us a day or
  Prince. Search, seek, and know how this foul murder comes.
                      HASTINGS, and RATCLIFF
    venture purgatory for't.
    And therefore are we certainly resolv'd
    Our merchants' goods at Bordeaux.
  My tongue-tied muse in manners holds her still,
    The chopping French we do not understand.
  FIRST BANDIT. 'Tis in the malice of mankind that he thus advises
  BOLINGBROKE. As I was banish'd, I was banish'd Hereford;
    In thy despite shall scape mortality.
Dramatis Personae
  PAGE. Nay, good Master Parson, keep in your weapon.  
    And how the English have the suburbs won.
    Judge when you hear. But, soft, what nymphs are these?
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  LUCIO. That's the way; for women are light at midnight.
    thee.
    Duncan comes here tonight.


    out of thy mouth that I may drink thy tidings.
        To the winding of horns, enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA,
    And now my tongue's use is to me no more
  FERDINAND. Yes, faith, and all his lords, the Duke of Milan

  QUEEN. Ah, barbarous villains! Hath this lovely face  
    As one unworthy all the former favours
  KING HENRY. More than I seem, and less than I was born to:
    Can bide the beating of so strong a passion
    You be convey'd to th' Tower a prisoner;
     Stand in hard cure. [To the Fool] Come, help to bear thy master.

    So in the earth, to this day is not known.
    Grossly grew captive to his honey words
    thinking I had been myself, that I was the Prince's jester, that
  JULIA. Because methinks that she lov'd you as well  
     To his great master; who, thereat enrag'd,
    pronouns.
  SUFFOLK. Comfort, my sovereign! Gracious Henry, comfort!
    laughter.
  PEASEBLOSSOM. Ready.
    Within six hours they will be at his aid.
    Not trusting to this halting legate here,
    receive some instructions from my fellow partner.
  PAGE. A proper gentlewoman, sir, and a kinswoman of my master's.
  REIGNIER. Suffolk, what remedy?
    To these ill-tuned repetitions.
    I have not slept.
    Either of you to be the other's end.
SCENE.--Messina.
    That shall salute our rightful sovereign
    As I will meet thee, if thou stir abroad-
     Gracious my lord, hard by here is a hovel;
     He fastened on my neck, and bellowed out
  Fool. May not an ass know when the cart draws the horse?
  CHIEF JUSTICE. I then did use the person of your father;
    or you may chance to burn your lips.
    I will consider; what you have to say
    No, it will hang upon my richest robes
  Oph. The King rises.
    That the sense aches at thee, would thou hadst ne'er been born!
    Our purpos'd hunting shall be set aside.  

    And what they weigh, even to the utmost scruple,
    Let Mars divide eternity in twain
    at me?
    Come, down into the boat.
    Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
                         Enter his Lady.
    She gave me for my pains a world of sighs;
  But when she saw my woeful state,
    Where's Fulvia's process? Caesar's I would say? Both?
            Enter STEPHANO singing; a bottle in his hand
    And you degenerate, you ingrate revolts,
    When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
  Polonius, Lord Chamberlain.
    There is no certain princess that appears;
    And either [master] the devil, or throw him out
    And the buildings of my fancy; only
    He was a bachelor then.
    That you affect; and so must you resolve
    The vow is made. Come, brother, take a head,
  Rom. Let me be ta'en, let me be put to death.  
  Had fast'ned him unto a small spare mast,
    After the prompter, for our entrance;
    I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe.
    And pass them current too. Gods me, my horse!  
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    The changeling never known. Now, the next day  
  DUKE. What's he?
    To tear the Garter from thy craven's leg,  [Plucking it off]
  THERSITES. The cuckold and the cuckold-maker are at it. Now, bull!
    As huge as high Olympus.
    Stop up the access and passage to remorse,
  Well, sir, I thank you.
    Under this conjuration speak, my lord;
    Levied an army, weening to redeem
    And perish constant fools. Who is't can blame him?
    Three crabbed months had sour'd themselves to death,
  MARK ANTONY, general and friend of Caesar, a Triumvir after his death
    Now fills thy sleep with perturbations.
  BULLCALF. O Lord, sir! I am a diseased man.
    And the dire death of my poor sons and brothers?
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    For Angelo,  
    It was a mark of wonder.
    Made by some other deity than Nature,

    That's due to all the villains past, in being,

  OLIVIA. What's the matter?
Scene V.
    But tell not me; I know Antonio
    Thus got the house of Lancaster the crown.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Good, an God will!
  MRS. PAGE. Why, did you take her in green?
  POST. Great lords, from Ireland am I come amain
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. So are a number more.
    That, till the father rid his hands of her,
    Bid me do anything but that, sweet Greek.
    And mount her pitch whom thou in triumph long.
    In this man's place before him?
    Opinion shall be surgeon to my hurt
    King.
  Edm. So please your lordship, none.
  Mar. Question it, Horatio.
    She swore, in faith, 'twas strange, 'twas passing strange;
    My mother is assailed in our tent,
    Upon her patient breast, making their way  
    city? Are they so follow'd?
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE and DROMIO OF SYRACUSE
    That drums him from his sport and speaks as loud
    So should we you, if you should be our king.
  MENENIUS. Either you must
    Doth watch Bianca's steps so narrowly,
    would be loath to cast away my speech; for, besides that it is
    This is a way to kill a wife with kindness,
    So dull, so dread in look, so woe-begone,

  TOUCHSTONE. Amen. A man may, if he were of a fearful heart, stagger
    The one as famous for a scolding tongue
    When you do take the means whereby I live.
    What shall I do? Say what. What shall I do?
    If thou wilt condescend to be my-
    Wherein thy counsel and consent is wanting.
  ALL. Thanks, Jupiter!
    'Ask me no reason why I love you; for though Love use
  FIRST HUNTSMAN. Believe me, lord, I think he cannot choose.
    The way that they did and to grin like lions
  DUCHESS. That's bad enough, for I am but reproach-
     stealing; Modo, of murder; Flibbertigibbet, of mopping and
    And mak'st them kiss! that speak'st with every tongue  
    Shalt have the air at freedom; for a little
  HASTINGS. Gramercy, Hastings; there, drink that for me.
  SIMPCOX. But that in all my life, when I was a youth.
  on beasts, and what he hath scanted men in hair he hath
    Hath, with the courage which the heart did lend it,
Another part of the wood

                                                 [Horns within.]
    You never had a servant to whose trust
    That ever I shall breathe. God knows, my son,
    Breeds him and makes him of his bed-chamber,

  QUEEN MARGARET. What, dost thou scorn me for my gentle

    Pass our accept and peremptory answer.
  Leon. Thine, Claudio; thine I say.
    I'll have no wife, Paulina.
    To signify thou cam'st to bite the world;
  BOLINGBROKE. Cousin, stand forth, and look upon that man.
    And then I'll set upon him.
    She is a woman, therefore may be woo'd;
    Fear not, man; here's no harm intended to thee.
     Music plays. Enter two or three SERVANTS with a banquet
    I take it kindly. Yet be well assur'd  
    O, what more favour can I do to thee
  SUFFOLK. Resign it then, and leave thine insolence.
  JAQUES. Can you nominate in order now the degrees of the lie?

    us!
  BARDOLPH. Sir, pardon; a soldier is better accommodated than with a
    This wide and universal theatre
    Sirrah, a word with you. Attend those men
    I should be glad to hear such news as this
    stile, this way.
  SOMERSET.  [Aside]  Perish, base Prince, ignoble Duke of
    but to fortify her judgment, which else an easy battery might lay  
    Lie tumbling in my barefoot way, and mount
    You are betroth'd both to a maid and man.
    And let the unscarr'd braggarts of the war
    If I break faith, this word shall speak for me:
  WOLSEY. Well, we shall then know more, and Buckingham
    Nor never could the noble Mortimer
    But Barnardine must die this afternoon;
  ANTONY. It ripens towards it. Strike the vessels, ho!
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I, Sir, am Dromio; pray let me stay.
  OLIVIA. Let him approach. Call in my gentlewoman.
    In his bright radiance and collateral light
  WARWICK. So bad a death argues a monstrous life.
    His overmounting spirit; and there died,
  ANNE. I think there are, sir; I heard them talk'd of.
    That by your virtuous means I may again
    To be afeard to tell greybeards the truth?
    Our other healthful members even to that sense
    Nor fetch in firing
    thrust through the doublet, four through the hose; my buckler cut
    To measure out my length on this cold bed.
    swallowed with yeast and froth, as you'd thrust a cork into a
    The fragments, scraps, the bits, and greasy relics
    Exposing what is mortal and unsure
ACT II. SCENE I.
    Irregular humourists
  SATURNINUS.  [Aside]  A goodly lady, trust me; of the hue
  King. I prithee,
  The bloody spur cannot provoke him on,
    She lov'd not the savour of tar nor of pitch,
  THIRD CONSPIRATOR. Sir, his stoutness
  CAESAR. Forget not in your speed, Antonio,

    and wert indeed, but for the light in thy face, the son of utter
    Horatio!- or I do forget myself.
    You master's mistress.
  THURIO. So do counterfeits.
    charg'd chambers bravely-
  LAVINIA. 'Tis true, the raven doth not hatch a lark.
  Time had not scythed all that youth begun,
    He leaves me, scorns me. Briefly die their joys
    I hear him as he flatter'd.
  NORFOLK. We'll all assist you; he that flies shall die.
    Being wrong'd as we are by this peevish town,
  IAGO. You are a fool; go to.
  CLARENCE. Doth the King call?  
  Rom. Farewell, farewell! One kiss, and I'll descend.
    In every wound of Caesar that should move
    Invites the King of England's stay at home;
    this woman.  [Exeunt QUICKLY and ROBIN]  This news
    too. Counterfeit? I lie; I am no counterfeit. To die is to be a
    peradventure than is in your knowledge to dream of.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Brother of Gloucester, you mistake the  
    Wrench up thy power to th' highest.
  FIRST SERVANT. They have made him drink alms-drink.
  TITANIA. Then I must be thy lady; but I know
    That my youth suffer'd. My story being done,
    Being opposites of such repairing nature.
    He shall be answerable; and so farewell.
  MALVOLIO. 'Remember who commended thy yellow stockings,'-
    Is in thyself rebellion to thyself;
    Unto a poor but worthy gentleman. She's wedded;
    you tell me, is my boy- God rest his soul!- alive or dead?
    O'erthrows thy joys, friends, fortune, and thy state;
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

  JULIA. Marry, mine host, because I cannot be merry.
  King. We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
  DAVY. Sweet sir, sit; I'll be with you anon; most sweet sir, sit.
Venice. The court of justice
  FALSTAFF. No, I'll come no more i' th' basket. May I not go
      Duke of Albany.
    Will not proclaim against her maiden loss,
  Ben. Good morrow, cousin.
    Your father's wife did after wedlock bear him,
  PHEBE. And I for Ganymede.
     Thou unsubstantial air that I embrace!
  Dog. Why then, depart in peace and let the child wake her with
  VOLUMNIA. Moe noble blows than ever thou wise words;

    When I was wont to think no harm all night,
  LUCENTIO. Twenty crowns.

  SERVANTS
    To say thou dost not. Therefore tell me true;
    That the proportion both of thanks and payment
    The heir of his reward; [To BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS]  
    And not in fear of your nativity.
of the court, in manner of consistory; below them the SCRIBES.
    Given to the common enemy of man,
    Your joys with like relation. Go together,
    About a prophecy which says that G
    Let me have Hermia's; do you marry him.
     Than a grac'd palace. The shame itself doth speak
  CARDINAL. Nephew, what means this passionate discourse,
    Call in more women. When I am dead, good wench,
  FIRST MURTHERER. And I another

  CALIBAN. Thou dost me yet but little hurt; thou wilt anon,
    Doth show the mood of a much troubled breast,
    It skills not greatly who impugns our doom.
    Some run from breaks of ice, and answer none,
    Have leave and leisure to make love to her,
  KING EDWARD. Why, then, thy husband's lands I freely give thee.
    You adopt your policy, how is it less or worse
  DOLABELLA. Caesar, I shall.                               Exit

  We came again to bind them. Then they fled
  Bora. What, Conrade!
     Fetch me a better answer.
  GLOUCESTER. All happiness unto my lord the King!
  BELARIUS. Now for our mountain sport. Up to yond hill,
  BELARIUS. Be silent; let's see further.
    He brings you figs.
    This word 'rebellion'- it had froze them up,
  These poor rude lines of thy deceased lover:  
    the first humane principle I would teach them should be to
  CHIEF JUSTICE. I think you are fall'n into the disease, for you
  Mess. Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. No, but the loss of his own royal person.
    But Dover Castle. London hath receiv'd,
  BEROWNE. WOrthies away; the scene begins to cloud.  
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Well, let my deeds be witness of my worth.
  CLOWN. Come on, lay it by; and let's first see moe ballads; we'll
                               Exeunt PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
  KING RICHARD. advancement of your children, gentle  
    Big of this gentleman, our theme, deceas'd
    Both her sweet hands, her tongue, and that more dear
    Then, as in grateful virtue I am bound
    Hath puddled his clear spirit; and in such cases
  PROTEUS. Valentine!
    By day and night t' attend him carefully,
    That sees into the bottom of my grief?
    For, if I do, I'll mar the young clerk's pen.
    That they do know my son, come you more nearer
  CASSIUS. Am I not stay'd for? Tell me.
   And therefore we must needs admit the means  
    Lest unadvis'd you stain your swords with blood;
  ORLANDO. Can you remember any of the principal evils that he laid
    spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by, let us call
    Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
ADRIANA. Why, man, what is the matter?
    He would not answer to; forbid all names;
    shall crave your forbearance a little. May be I will call upon
  AGAMEMNON. In second voice we'll not be satisfied;
The coast of Wales. A castle in view
  FIRST SOLDIER. Well, that's set down. 'You shall demand of him
  BOATSWAIN. I pray now, keep below.
  Osr. A hit, a very palpable hit.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Heaven give you many, many merry days!
    According to that state you shall be us'd.

    But sure some Tereus hath deflowered thee,
    Richmond in Dorsetshire sent out a boat
    Fresh kings are come to Troy. To-morrow

  And perspective it is best painter's art.
     The stars above us, govern our conditions;
  CARDINAL. Let me be blessed for the peace I make
    This minion stood upon her chastity,

  LORD. Go, sirrah, take them to the buttery,
  Lear. True, my good boy. Come, bring us to this hovel.
    There is no harm intended to your person,
    for this.

  Lear. Do not abuse me.
two Noblemen bearing great standing-bowls for the christening gifts;
  SECOND CITIZEN. If thou consider rightly of the matter,  
    And yet are on't? Live you? or are you aught
    Religiously provokes. Be pleased then
    She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
    Upon this overweening traitor's foot
    Where now his knowledge must prove ignorance.
  CRANMER. Amen.
    Say either, and I'll stay the circumstance.
IACHIMO and POSTHUMUS.  He vanquisheth and disarmeth IACHIMO,

  BRUTUS. My countrymen-
  Ham. In the secret parts of Fortune? O! most true! she is a
    He was a man: this, in respect, a child;
    pride and wrath would confound thee, and make thine own self the
    disprais'd him before the wicked- that the wicked might not fall
    (Which like dumb mouths do ope their ruby lips
  LUCIUS. Ha! What has he sent? I am so much endeared to that lord:
    If not most mortal to him. But let it come.
    Force me to keep you as a prisoner,
  Bora. Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villany
  PUCK. Follow me, then,
  FLUELLEN. By this day and this light, the fellow has mettle enough

    And when the mind is quick'ned, out of doubt
    'tis in three parts.
    So, bring us to our palace, where we'll show
  POMPEY. Hast thou drunk well?
    That memory, the warder of the brain,  
    'For often have you writ to her; and she, in modesty,

  FOURTH LORD. I have lost my gown.
    Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air
  KING RICHARD. March on, march on, since we are up in

  FLAMINIUS. Faith, nothing but an empty box, sir, which in my lord's  
  ROSALIND. It may well be call'd Jove's tree, when it drops forth
    time; there do muster true gait; eat, speak, and move, under the
  TRANIO. Faith, he is gone unto the taming-school.
    Prick'd from the lazy finger of a maid;
SCENE III.
  But, sure, he is stark mad.
    read the names of the actors; and so grow to a point.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Deceitful Warwick, it was thy device
London. A street
                                                   [They swear.]
    And brave attendants near him when he wakes,
  A fiend, a fairy, pitiless and rough;
  Glou. Take him you on.
    We'ld jump the life to come. But in these cases
     To wage against the enmity o' th' air,
SCENE II.
    Good morrow, old Sir Thomas Erpingham:
    And as imagination bodies forth
  PAGE. That silk will I go buy.  [Aside]  And in that time
    know by his trumpets. Sirrah, inquire further after me; I had

  BRUTUS. Let 'em enter.                            Exit Lucius.
    And he that's once denied will hardly speed.            Exit
  GONZALO. He'll be hang'd yet,
     This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch,


    Until your lordship came to see his end-
  COBWEB, fairy
    If you be one, as you are well express'd
    Shall, stiff and stark and cold, appear like death;
  All melting; though our drops this diff'rence bore:
  HOLOFERNES. Great Hercules is presented by this imp,
  Hot. Peace! she sings.
    Who, falling in the flaws of her own youth,
        Sound drums and trumpets, and then enter MARTIUS


    And when I mount, alive may I not light

    Away at once with love or jealousy!
    When as the noble Duke of York was slain,
  JESSICA. What! must I hold a candle to my shames?
                 SONG

    Myself to see the issue.
  Leon. No, no. We will hold it as a dream till it appear itself; but  
    grief.
  PETRUCHIO. Not I, believe me; thus I'll visit her.
  THERSITES. You scurvy lord!


              And her troth plight,
    And I, poor monster, fond as much on him;
  HELENA. Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie,
  ANTONY. Sometime we see a cloud that's dragonish;
    Makes vow before his uncle never more
    Nothing so much as mincing poetry.
  PARIS. [Within] Brother Troilus!
  Balth. O, good my lord, tax not so bad a voice
  DUCHESS. God bless thee; and put meekness in thy breast,
    Hath kept with thy remembrance?
  BERTRAM. If you shall prove
  EMILIA. But then I saw no harm, and then I heard
    Yet sell your face for fivepence and 'tis dear.
    Lilies that fester, smell far worse than weeds.
  Guildenstern, courtier.
  PETRUCHIO. Gentlemen and friends, I thank you for your pains.
    Against the senseless winds shalt grin in vain,
    How oft when men are at the point of death  
  STEPHANO. Monster, I will kill this man; his daughter and I
    To his most royal person; hither come
                      Enter APEMANTUS  
  SIR TOBY. An thou let part so, Sir Andrew, would thou mightst never

  Those lips that Love's own hand did make,
    Bootless home and weather-beaten back.
  LENNOX. Here is a place reserved, sir.
    Their saucy sweetness that do coin heaven's image
    A statue than a breather.
    Are our carnations and streak'd gillyvors,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    As ignorant as dirt! Thou hast done a deed-  
  And wherefore say not I that I am old?
    O me! my uncle's spirit is in these stones.


  Glou. Alack, the night comes on, and the bleak winds
    Rome, thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods!
  LENNOX. Mean you his Majesty?
    unfortunate a beggar.
    Sick in the world's regard, wretched and low,
    Under the conduct of bold Iachimo,
  PAGE. He's gone into Smithfield to buy your worship horse.
    Masters, lay down your weapons.
  GLOUCESTER. Brother, the time and case requireth haste;
    The thunder of my cannon shall be heard.
  Neither in inward worth nor outward fair
    Where every something, being blent together,

  EMILIA. I durst, my lord, to wager she is honest,
  Sex. What heard you him say else?
  CAIUS. Vell?
    And pithless arms, like to a withered vine

    And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
  GREMIO. Ay, and a kind one too.
    To have her back return'd. Thus to persist
  THIRD WITCH. Thou shalt get kings, though thou be none.
  Ant. If he could right himself with quarrelling,  

    As high as word, my deed shall match thy deed.

  Rom. Is love a tender thing? It is too rough,
  CAESAR. Not so. Adieu.
    For gnarling sorrow hath less power to bite
  TAMORA. My lovely Aaron, wherefore look'st thou sad

    liking. And yet he would not swear; prais'd women's
  Now this ill-wresting world is grown so bad,
             Goblin, lead them up and down.
    The scene you play were mine. For instance, sir,
  Lady P. Then be still.

    Do but behold yon poor and starved band,
    My master, not myself, lacks recompense.
  AGUECHEEK. Her C's, her U's, and her T's. Why that?
  Mess. But few of any sort, and none of name.
    And let his manly face, which promiseth
    Madam, farewell.
    Alas, you know not; I must tell you then.
Enter DROMIO OF SYRACUSE
    The pretty dimples of his chin and cheek; his smiles;

    As hell's from heaven! If it were now to die,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    I feel such sharp dissension in my breast,
                     125
  KING RICHARD. So.
  ANTONIO. I'll be thy second.      Exeunt SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO
    My soul to heaven, my blood upon your heads!
    That hand which had the strength, even at your door.
    Thou diest within this hour.
    Even for that our love of old, I prithee,
    Of the all-binding law; and that there were
SCENE III.
  LEONTES. O grave and good Paulina, the great comfort
    On mine own sword? Whiles I see lives, the gashes
  MESSALA. That, methinks, is strange.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. O, belike it is the Bishop of Carlisle.
    But in this extant moment, faith and troth,
  DUCHESS. He shall be none;
Enter the ARCHBISHOP, THOMAS MOWBRAY the EARL MARSHAL, LORD HASTINGS,
  COSTARD. O Lord, sir, it were pity you should get your living by  
ADRIANA. Come, come, no longer will I be a fool,
  KING. Call her again.
    O, once tell true; tell true, even for my sake!
    Here may his head lie on my throbbing breast;
    That brain'd my purpose. But peace be with him!
  POMPEY. Doth your honour see any harm in his face?
  DUCHESS. Where is kind Hastings?
               Thou art past the tyrant's stroke.
     and fond bondage in the oppression of aged tyranny, who sways,
    Defacing monuments of conquer'd France,
    Unreconciliable, should divide
  Beauteous thou art, therefore to be assailed.
    Methinks the power that Edward hath in field
    No int'rim, not a minute's vacancy,
  MESSENGER. All hail, my lords! Which of this princely train
     They love you all? Haply, when I shall wed,
    Being but the one half of an entire sum
  OTHELLO.                           The sooner, sweet, for you.
    cannot abide swagg'rers.
    shall speak for himself.
    The importancy of Cyprus to the Turk,
    many hath he kill'd? For indeed I promised to eat all of his
    Or with light skirmishes enfeebled.
  CELIA. Which he will put on us as pigeons feed their young.
  GLOUCESTER. Peace, Mayor! thou know'st little of my wrongs:
  ANTONY. Thou canst not fear us, Pompey, with thy sails;
  MENTEITH. We doubt it nothing.
    The hardest knife ill-used doth lose his edge.
    Strangers in court do take her for the Queen.
  And sue a friend, came debtor for my sake,
  CLITUS. Statilius show'd the torchlight, but, my lord,
    Less appear so, in comforting your evils,
    That hast no less deserved, nor must be known
  THERSITES. Roguery!
    A care-craz'd mother to a many sons,
  TITUS. Prince Bassianus, leave to plead my deeds.
  PAROLLES. An thy mind stand to 't, boy, steal away bravely.
  VOLUMNIA. O, Y'are well met; th' hoarded plague o' th' gods
    Have I not heard these islanders shout out
                         Enter TROILUS
    Christmas gambold or a tumbling-trick?
   The perilous narrow ocean parts asunder.
    And in such indexes, although small pricks
    To bear my lady's train, lest the base earth
  The folded meaning of your words' deceit.
    Chief master-gunner am I of this town;
  CADE. As for these silken-coated slaves, I pass not;
    The dull and factious nobles of the Greeks
  CASSIUS. This, Decius Brutus.
    And bring me word what he doth say to thee.
    I told you, sir, my daughter is dispos'd of.
    Alack, what heinous sin is it in me
  LONGAVILLE. Marry, that did I.
    The sun that sear'd the wings of my sweet boy,

    We have caught the woodcock, and will keep him muffled
    bald crown.

  ELBOW. Marry, I thank your good worship for it. What is't your
    Spit, and throw stones, cast mire upon me, set
    And shortly mean to touch our northern shore.

  We talk with goblins, owls, and sprites.
  BRUTUS. Why did you so cry out, sirs, in your sleep?
  Edg. Look up, my lord.
  Ben. Romeo, away, be gone!
Another part of the island
    Approach the fold and cull th' infected forth,
  EROS. Caesar, having made use of him in the wars 'gainst Pompey,
  SEBASTIAN. He hath rais'd the wall, and houses too.
  DUKE. Words against me? This's a good friar, belike!

    crown, kisses it, pours poison in the sleeper's ears, and
  King. Then this remains, that we divide our power.
  FALSTAFF. Very well, sir; proceed.
  POET. Nay, let's seek him;
    And hire posthorses. I will hence to-night.
     On whose employment I was sent to you.
  KING RICHARD. What doth our cousin lay to Mowbray's charge?
  FIRST CITIZEN. Bring him with triumph home unto his house.
  THYREUS. The scars upon your honour, therefore, he
    This expedition was by York and Talbot
  THERSITES. Would I could meet that rogue Diomed! I would croak like
  France. Is it but this- a tardiness in nature

    I thought so then. I'll kill myself for grief.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  YORK. Will not this malice, Somerset, be left?
  Edm. I do not well know, my lord. If it shall please you to suspend
    To the next abstinence; the next more easy;
    And you too, Somerset and Montague,
    And prompt me that my tongue may utter forth
  CELIA. I cannot say the words.
  OCTAVIUS. Your brother too must die; consent you, Lepidus?
    Part shame, part spirit renew'd; that some turn'd coward
    me tame. If I have horns to make one mad, let the proverb
Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house
  PAGE. How now, Master Ford!
     'Tis past, and so am I.- But what art thou
  MRS. FORD. Marry, this is our device-
    I must go seek some dewdrops here,
  IAGO. I did not think he had been acquainted with her.
    Will not go from my mind; I have much to do
  CRANMER. Why?
  FIRST LORD. I will never trust a man again for keeping his sword

    Stand from him, fellow; wherefore hang'st thou upon him?
    And every day that comes comes comes to
  PISTOL. Discuss unto me: art thou officer,
    As surfeit is the father of much fast,
    And by the leave of my good lord the King,
  Beat. Is 'a not approved in the height a villain, that hath
  DESDEMONA. Ay, sooth; so humbled
    convoy; and between these main parcels of dispatch effected many
  FABIAN. Good madam, hear me speak,
    seems not in him by some large jests he will make. Well, I am
  PUCELLE. A plaguing mischief fight on Charles and thee!
    Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,  
    And I dare well maintain it with my life-
    With meekness and humility; but your heart
  MENAS. Pray ye, sir?
  ANTONY. Our overplus of shipping will we burn,
    A prince, Miranda; I do think, a king-
  SUFFOLK. No, no;
    Triumphant death, smear'd with captivity,
    Sad, high, and working, full of state and woe,
    So much of bad already hath possess'd them.
    I do beseech ye, if you bear me hard,
    Thou art not ignorant what dear good will

  Lords, Gentlemen, and Attendants; Priest, Scrivener, Page, Bishops,

    think is his name?
    my father; no, no, left shoe is my mother; nay, that cannot be so
        suitor to BIANCA. LUCENTIO and TRANIO stand by
    daughter; and never two ladies loved as they do.
    The fear of that holds off my present aid.
  I see we still did meet each other's man,
  CHIRON. Aaron, a thousand deaths
    than you shall do to Brutus. The question of his death is
    And leave the burden of it all on thee.


     The fishermen that walk upon the beach
  Sister, you know he promis'd me a chain;
    Lo, by thy side where Rape and Murder stands;
    (Sings) White his shroud as the mountain snow-
  THERSITES. Who, I? Why, he'll answer nobody; he professes not
    About our squares of battle- were enow
  KING EDWARD. A pleasing cordial, princely Buckingham,
                                                         [Exit.]
    With all the friends that thou, brave Earl of March,

    Which have for long run by the hideous law,
    Bereft and gelded of his patrimony.
  IACHIMO. He was expected then,
    Our cousin Hereford and fell Mowbray fight.
  And stay there, Dromio, till I come to thee.
  Asked their own wills, and made their wills obey.
    Not to be shak'd; the agent for his master,
    It is not possible, it cannot be
    And makes milch-kine yield blood, and shakes a chain
    Now will I dam up this thy yawning mouth
  FERDINAND. O heaven, O earth, bear witness to this sound,
    That now our loss might be ten times so much?
  Ben. Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.
    And not the punishment. Therefore, indeed, my father,
     Upon our kingdom. If, on the tenth day following,
    See, see, thou hast shot off one of Taurus' horns.

    chopt, bald shot. Well said, i' faith, Wart; th'art a good scab.
  TITUS. How, sir! Are you in earnest then, my lord?
    And ruminate himself-shall he be worshipp'd
  POLIXENES. Soft, swain, awhile, beseech you;
    Then, York, unloose thy long-imprisoned thoughts
  JAQUES. You have a nimble wit; I think 'twas made of Atalanta's
    Or else this blow should broach thy dearest blood.
    That you may know you shall not want- one word.
  Uttering bare truth, even so as foes commend.
  Conrade, follower of Don John.
       pearl, crowned. On each side her, the BISHOPS OF LONDON
    And deeper than did ever plummet sound
    Let us not hang like roping icicles
  LUCIO. Yes, marry, did I; but I was fain to forswear it: they would
    armour, they could never wear such heavy head-pieces.
  PORTER. That it did, sir, i' the very throat on me; but requited
  Lady Mortimer, daughter to Glendower, and wife to Mortimer.
  BRUTUS. Tell us the manner of it, gentle Casca.
    By th' second hour i' th' morn.
    gone; if you have reason, be brief; 'tis not that time of moon
  FALSTAFF. Master Brook, I will first make bold with your
                                         Exeunt all but FALSTAFF
    Of all your dear offences. Bear them hence.
  ESCALUS. I pray you home to dinner with me.
    And prey on garbage.
    Such as I love; and you among the store,
    He that outlives this day, and comes safe home,
    And fit you to your manhood. May the gods
  Prince. Away, you rogue! Dost thou not hear them call?
  CAPTAIN. I do, my lord, and mean accordingly.           Exeunt
Enter BEROWNE, with a paper his band, alone
    It is the bright day that brings forth the adder
    (Strange dream that gives a dead man leave to think!)
    See, Reignier, see, thy daughter prisoner!
    He never did fall off, my sovereign liege,  
    The world is not thy friend, nor the world's law;

    Cousin of Exeter, what thinks your lordship?  
    I can no more.
    That feel the bruises of the days before,
    Madam, I'll follow you unto the death.
  MOTH. And that's great marvel, loving a light wench.

    To clust'ring filberts, and sometimes I'll get thee
    they were warmer that got this than the poor thing is here. I'll
    And nothing brings me all things. Go, live still;
    Say that the Emperor requests a parley
    Presuming on their changeful potency.
  BAPTISTA. Faith, gentlemen, now I play a merchant's part,
  GRATIANO. Fair sir, you are well o'erta'en.
                                              [Showing his shoe]
    That makes me see, and cannot feed mine eye?
Enter Kent and a Gentleman.
  John. [to Claudio] Means your lordship to be married tomorrow?
  PRINCE. Even such kin as the parish heifers are to the town bull.
    Unto the body of a dismal yew,  
  OLIVIA. That's a degree to love.
    For beauty, starv'd with her severity,
Enter a Carrier with a lantern in his hand.
     By your eyes' anguish.
    Your hearts I'll stamp out with my horse's heels
    And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven,
    Help me this once, that France may get the field.
    The washing of ten tides!
    More than I love these eyes, more than my life,

    Then we must rate the cost of the erection;
    And of the Cannibals that each other eat,
  ROSALIND. What is he that shall buy his flock and pasture?
SCENE II.
     Repair those violent harms that my two sisters

    Acknowledge mine.
  Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
    terms the enemy stood on; and this they con perfectly in the
  TRANIO. I thank you, sir. Where then do you know best
    That he had not so trimm'd and dress'd his land
  COUNTESS. Laughest thou, wretch? Thy mirth shall turn to
  Gon. There is further compliment of leave-taking between France and
    From thence to England, where I hope ere long
  FIRST LORD. My lord, he is but even now gone hence;
    With baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.
    My fleece of woolly hair that now uncurls
    I am a mother to you.
    Empale him with your weapons round about;
  ANTONY. Be like they had some notice of the people,
    That every eye which in this forest looks
    I do not like the man; had he been lay, my lord,
Scene V.
  ARMADO. Green, indeed, is the colour of lovers; but to have a love
    factionary on the party of your general.
    Even to that drop ten thousand wiry friends
    Being an obstruct 'tween his lust and him.

    And yet to win her, all the world to nothing!
                                   Exeunt [all but the Captain].
    Who then persuaded you to stay at home?
  Or forced examples, 'gainst her own content,
    Twice saying 'pardon' doth not pardon twain,
    more!  
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    O, you are novices! 'Tis a world to see,
  GARDINER. Do not I know you for a favourer
    gives me the stuck in with such a mortal motion that it is
    Yearly will I do this rite.
  METELLUS. O, let us have him, for his silver hairs
  ANTONY. I am not married, Caesar. Let me hear
    Of Cloten's death- we being not known, not muster'd
  ORLANDO. I prithee recount some of them.
    Though he be merry, yet withal he's honest.
    Banquo and Donalbain! Malcolm, awake!
    Your own good thoughts excuse me, and farewell.
    Landlord of England art thou now, not King.  
    I have kept you next my heart; have not alone
    Enter'd my house. Antonio, you are welcome;
  LADY MACBETH. And when goes hence?
    I never lov'd my brother in my life.
  OLIVIA. A comfortable doctrine, and much may be said of it.
    With Clifford and the haught Northumberland,
    Beaufort's red sparkling eyes blab his heart's malice,
  DUKE. This weak impress of love is as a figure
    For I was train'd up in the English court,
    Hero, and kill Leonato. Look you for any other issue?
    poor old woman. That same knave Ford, her husband, hath
    'Twas where you woo'd the gentlewoman so well.  
  MARCUS. Titus, thou shalt obtain and ask the empery.


    Stabb'd by the self-same hand that made these wounds.
    On which I'll toss the flower-de-luce of France.
  PEDANT. Soft, son!
    I should be author to dishonour you!
    That noble-minded Titus means to thee!

  MENAS. And you by land.
  DUKE OF EXETER, Uncle to the King
            And turn his sleep to wake.
    Which his fair tongue, conceit's expositor,
  SILVIA. O heaven!
    Than seek the end of one, thou shalt no sooner  
    have nothing lie on my head. I cannot be thus satisfied.
  DOCTOR. Ay, my good lord, your royal preparation
  Dost thou upon thy fading mansion spend?
    You tender to her; that you in all obey her,
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Now, the Lord lighten thee! Thou art a great fool.
    In that one woman I have lost for ever.
     If ever thou wilt thrive, bury my body,
    From Florence, and must here deliver them.
  DUKE. I'll teach you how you shall arraign your conscience,
    Of roaring, shrieking, howling, jingling chains,
  VALENTINE. I know it well, my lord; and, sure, the match
     Enter an officer, and three or four Citizens with clubs or
  DUKE. Who saw Cesario, ho?
  DIANA. I must be patient.
    They gave us our demands.' Thus we debase
  BRUTUS. Seize him, aediles.
Yorkshire. Within the Forest of Gaultree
    on's face; whether there be a scar under 't or no, the velvet
    And God forgive them that so much have sway'd
    He writes me here that inward sickness-
    Come, stretch thy chest, and let thy eyes spout blood:
    And when he sleeps will she do what she list.
  That to my use it might unused stay
    Pale in her anger, washes all the air,
    prove upon thee, though thy little finger be armed in a thimble.
    Such a compounded one?
    That rises like the issue of a king,
    You have condemn'd and noted Lucius Pella
  Beshrew his hand, I scarce could understand it.
    The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks
  O what a mansion have those vices got,
  SUFFOLK. And so shall you,
  After his brother, and importun'd me
    Then how or which way should they first break in?
    For interim to our studies shall relate,
    Among my household? Why is Rumour here?
    admiration. They seem'd almost, with staring on one another, to
  CORIOLANUS. Are these your herd?
    We may, each wreathed in the other's arms,
  HELENA. Ay. You have some stain of soldier in you; let me ask you a
  CLEOPATRA. Some innocents scape not the thunderbolt.
  VIOLA. Sooth, but you must.
  ARTEMIDORUS. Delay not, Caesar; read it instantly.

  MRS. FORD. I'll warrant they'll have him publicly sham'd;
    Urg'd on the examinations, proofs, confessions,
  Doug. Talk not of dying. I am out of fear
    Why we ascribe it to him. Yet all his virtues,
    And, to be noted for a merry man,
    You smell this business with a sense as cold
    sometime guarded with fragments, and the guards are but slightly

ACT I. SCENE I.
    This sight would make him do a desperate turn,
    Pay him the due of 'honey-tongued Boyet.'
    My daughter Katherine is to be married;
    EARL OF SALISBURY
    The Britons have raz'd out, though with the loss
    above him in birth, alike conversant in general services, and
  Ham. Is not parchment made of sheepskins?

    What damned error but some sober brow
    Twinkling another counterfeited beam,
  LUCENTIO. At last, though long, our jarring notes agree;
    The beacon of the wise, the tent that searches
  GRUMIO. I pray you, sir, let him go while the humour lasts. O' my
    Let them set on at once, for I perceive
    And thy assistance, is King Richard seated.
 Exit
    Believe things certain. Welcome, my friends all!
    What boded this but well-forewarning wind
  BOLINGBROKE. Fetch hither Richard, that in common view
                        England and France
    prophet, the Nazarite, conjured the devil into! I will buy with
    For so your doctors hold it very meet,
    Dismiss his power, he means to visit us,

    Or, guilty in defence, be thus destroy'd?
    Bears a command in't; though thy tackle's torn,
    Or bend one wrinkle on my sovereign's face.
  Entitled in thy parts, do crowned sit,
    Of all these ears-for where I am robb'd and bound,
                       Re-enter BIONDELLO
    And now what rests but, in night's coverture,

    Shall cumber all the parts of Italy;
    Hath after thee sent all thy treasure, with
  SEBASTIAN. Scape being drunk for want of wine.
    been cozen'd and beaten too. If it should come to the car  
    Persever not, but hear me, mighty kings.
  To new-found methods, and to compounds strange?

  RODERIGO. What will I do, thinkest thou?
    Is it my mind, or Valentinus' praise,
    Put forth disorder'd twigs; her fallow leas
  DUKE. 'Tis certain then for Cyprus.
    O, insupportable! O heavy hour!
    And for I know thou'rt full of love and honesty
    We will have rings and things, and fine array;
  To me that languished for her sake:

    of thee.
  WESTMORELAND. Health to my sovereign, and new happiness
    How thou hast met us here, whom three hours since
    I know the young King is sick for me. Let us take any man's
    Without control lusted to make a prey.
    O, I should have a heavy miss of thee
                                      [They meet other soldiers]
                                                         [Exit.]
    Enter KING and QUEEN, AUMERLE, BUSHY, GREEN, BAGOT,
  CRESSIDA. 'Tis just to each of them: he is himself.
    Drowns him and takes his valour prisoner.
    him? This is the most omnipotent villain that ever cried 'Stand!'

  FITZWATER. My lord, I have from Oxford sent to London
  FIRST SOLDIER. Bosko chimurcho.  
    and thou art too cunning. At whose request do these men play?
    In lieu of this, last night did lie with me.
    And so, farewell; and fair be all thy hopes,
  The children thus dispos'd, my wife and I,
    That you will wonder what hath fortuned.
    I snatch'd one half out of the jaws of death,
    That thou mayst be a queen and check the world!
    He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valor
    My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
    How he's employ'd; he shall in time be ready.
    Another dowry to another daughter,

    Lives in these touches, livelier than life.
    But if thou strive, poor soul, what are thou then?
    Yet, since love's argument was first on foot,
    Hunting thee hence with hunt's-up to the day!
    Shall we buy treason? and indent with fears
    lost without deserving. You have lost no reputation at all,
    Arm, arm with speed! and, fellows, soldiers, friends,
    the way; I praise heaven for it.
    I shall have glory by this losing day,
  GREMIO. Ay, marry, sir, now it begins to work.
  ESCALUS. He shows his reason for that: to have a dispatch of
    me then, as I was washing thy wound, to marry me and make me my
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    And, as I am a gentleman, I'll give the
    Give't me again. Poor lady, she'll run mad
    To some remote and desert place, quite out
    Would be her lord? Or shall I say her uncle?
    Therefore, change favours; and, when they repair,
                Which men full true shall find:
    Gave me my being and my father first,
    Why 'silver sound'? Why 'music with her silver sound'?
    An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
    Is very cunning in.
  CLOWN. Dexteriously, good madonna.
    Pity the city of London, pity us!
    Barnardine!
    Nor lead me, like a firebrand, in the dark
  BAPTISTA. What, is the man lunatic?
    Andronicus, stain not thy tomb with blood.
    How now, Malvolio!
    to come, the discharge. Your neck, sir, is pen, book, and
    I am left out; for me nothing remains.
    in the merriness.
    That no king can corrupt.
    And so dies my revenge.
  BERTRAM. I have it not.
    Even when their sorrows almost was forgot,
    Then thieves and robbers range abroad unseen
    Let all my sins lack mercy! O my father,
     The art of our necessities is strange,
    The right and fortune of his happy stars,
    Orlando, for my husband. There's a girl goes before the priest;
  ANNE. My honour'd lord!                       Exit LORD CHAMBERLAIN
    That fair Queen Isabel, his grandmother,
    And to conclude: the shepherd's homely curds,
  STEPHANO. If thou beest Trinculo, come forth; I'll pull
  TRANIO. Is this your speeding? Nay, then good-night our part!
                                               [They talk aside]
  RICHARD. Say how he died, for I will hear it all.
    At length broke under me, and now has left me,
    what another, that I shall leave you one o' th's days; and I have
    In any breast of strong authority
    To welcome the condition of the time,
    When Dighton thus told on: 'We smothered  

    'tis a good dog.
    But we will visit you at supper-time.                 Exeunt
  ALENCON. Defer no time, delays have dangerous ends;
    For how I firmly am resolv'd you know;
    Than is his use.
    My man of men.
  CICERO,     senator
    himself with courtesy. Say'st thou that house is dark?
  DECIUS. Never fear that. If he be so resolved,
    Drawn tuns of blood out of thy country's breast,
  MENENIUS. Do you hear?
  Which for their habitation chose out thee,
  Pedro. By this light, he changes more and more. I think he be angry
    Show'd like a rebel's whore. But all's too weak;
    Since I have lost thee!
    How I had moved them. Bring me to Octavius.          Exeunt.
    Let never day nor night unhallowed pass,
    Where these two Christian armies might combine


    What answer makes your Grace unto my suit?
    Thou hast undone thyself, thy son, and me;
    Could have knock'd out his brains, for he had none;

  LEPIDUS. Y'have strange serpents there.
    Which I will bear in triumph to the King,
    I pray, my lords, let me compound this strife.
    To plant and o'erwhelm custom. Let me pass
    Survives, to whom, thyself art witness,
    Then broke I from the officers that led me,
    If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
    And if ye love me, as I think you do,
    The shepherd's note since we have left our throne
    Ah, now thou turn'st away thy face for shame!
    To the last syllable of recorded time;
  Friar. You come hither, my lord, to marry this lady?
    With this abundance of superfluous breath?
  Pedro. You have put him down, lady; you have put him down.
    Thou, like an exorcist, hast conjured up
    For his designs crave haste, his haste good hope.
  ROSALIND. Fare you well. Pray heaven I be deceiv'd in you!
  BASSANIO. Be assur'd you may.
    To make your house our Tow'r. You a brother of us,
    A serpent that will sting thee to the heart.
  ARCHBISHOP. 'Tis very true, Lord Bardolph; for indeed
  WIDOW. Lord, how we lose our pains!
  KING HENRY. Here, Fluellen; wear thou this favour for me, and stick
     Till further settling.  
    Give Mistress Shore one gentle kiss the more.
          Or sent to Naples. Let me not,
Enter certain Romans, with spoils
    Whom I have sent for to determine this,
    If thou be there, sweet brother, take my hand,
    Or hollowly put on.
    And frame your mind to mirth and merriment,
  PRINCE HENRY. How fares your Majesty?
    Once Arviragus, in as like a figure
    Though this a heavenly angel, hell is here.  [Clock strikes]
    art as well as by nature. For this drivelling love is like a
  QUEEN. This hath been
  CLOWN. Look you, the worm is not to be trusted but in the keeping
    This conduct to convey me to th' Tower.
    And light them at the fiery glow-worm's eyes,
    We have supplies to second our attempt.
    To him that worships thee.         [Throwing the money back]

    Wax dim, as drawing to their exigent;
  LEWIS. Now, sister, let us hear your firm resolve.
    Gracious Lavinia, Rome's rich ornament,
    throstle sing he falls straight a-cap'ring; he will fence with
    One nickname for her purblind son and heir,
  Ost. [within] Anon, anon.
    Love-thoughts lie rich when canopied with bow'rs.

    To find the mind's construction in the face:
    What's here? A cup, clos'd in my true love's hand?

    And often at his very loose decides  
    try the man. But I tell thee my heart bleeds inwardly that my
                 [Sound trumpets and lay the coffin in the tomb]
  TIMON. Commend me to my loving countrymen-
    A natural and prompt alacrity
    Shall sun that morrow see!
    And I beseech you, let not his report
    Sienna's brother.
    A sennet.
    To envious and calumniating Time.
    almanac to that?  
    This was a way to thrive, and he was blest;
                           Enter LAFEU  
    Is- that she is intolerable curst,
  ARMADO. Thou pretty, because little.
    Gold? Yellow, glittering, precious gold? No, gods,
  GRATIANO. Yes, faith, my lord.
    Here's to my love! [Drinks.] O true apothecary!
    Which is as bad as die with tickling.
  TOUCHSTONE. Holla, you clown!
    Turn giddy, and be holp by backward turning;
    Doth to our rose of youth rightly belong;
  EUPHRONIUS. Fortune pursue thee!
    last night.
    of eyes, holding up of hands, with countenance of such
    The first conditions, which they did refuse
    and will kiss thy foot. I prithee be my god.
    honour; so belike is that.
    his age some fifty, or, by'r Lady, inclining to threescore; and
  BEDFORD. Gloucester, why doubt'st thou of my forwardness?
    I owe him little duty and less love,
    th' buttry-bar and let it drink.
    That Cloten, whose love-suit hath been to me
    And wand'red hither to an obscure plot,
  He is my prisoner, and you shall not have him.
  GLOUCESTER. Am I not Protector, saucy priest?
    To the succession of new days this month.
    As we his subjects have in wonder found,
  (Making lascivious comments on thy sport)
    Give life to yours.
  OTHELLO.                   He hath confess'd.
    That modesty may more betray our sense
    With mine own breath release all duteous oaths;
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    With what encounter so uncurrent I
    briefly, I have pursu'd her as love hath pursued me; which
    Well, Brutus, thou art noble; yet, I see  
  JULIA. This babble shall not henceforth trouble me.
  SHALLOW.  [Aside]  We will do it.
    Reward did threaten and encourage him,
    Came not till now to dignify the times,
    And chides with thinking.  
  DESDEMONA. O, falsely, falsely murther'd!
    Is it not monstrous that this player here,
    Yet bury him as a prince.
    Again, in pity of my hard distress,
                       Enter a NOBLEMAN
     The wretch that thou hast blown unto the worst
    I then did ask of her her changeling child;
  BELARIUS. Be pleas'd awhile.
  TAILOR. But did you not request to have it cut?

    Good morrow, Kate- for that's your name, I hear.
  PHEBE, a shepherdes  
    And there will I be with him. So farewell.                  Exit.
  Prince. It appears so by the story.
     though the conflict be sore between that and my blood.

    I still win of you. For my sake wear this;
    Alas, poor Harry of England! he longs not for the dawning as we
    Mere fathers of their garments; whose constancies
    Let his queen mother all alone entreat him  
    Rush all to pieces on thy rocky bosom.
    My life may last to answer.
    Having some business, do entreat her eyes
    And I forgive and quite forget old faults,
    That I had any light from thee of this.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Plantagenet, for all the claim thou lay'st,
    Inclinable to honour and advance
  Whereto th' inviting time our fashion calls:
                           Enter ARIEL
    Fly with false aim; move the still-piecing air,
    Beaumont and Marle, Vaudemont and Lestrake.
    What my tongue speaks, my right drawn sword may prove.
  And in his company that gentleman.
    With giving him glory.
    Foretells a tempest and a blust'ring day.
  GARGRAVE. O Lord, have mercy on me, woeful man!
    Songs and Sonnets here.
    As, by my faith, I see no more in you
  TALBOT. And leave my followers here to fight and die?
    And on old Hiems' thin and icy crown
    shall be so far forth friendly maintain'd till by helping  
    On pain of torture, from those bloody hands
    I saw him in the battle range about,
    the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.

  Jul. Farewell! God knows when we shall meet again.
    doubling of files-I would do the man what honour I can-but of
    Be not with mortal accidents opprest:
    The French king's daughter, with yourself to speak-
    I know her spirits are as coy and wild
  KING. 'that unlettered small-knowing soul,'
    Without me, as within me; not imagin'd, felt.
     This seems a fair deserving, and must draw me
  VERNON. With him, my lord; for he hath done me wrong.
    He threw his wounded arm and kiss'd his lips;

  Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
    To tug and scamble, and to part by th' teeth
  PANTHINO. Come, come away, man; I was sent to call thee.

    Look how thy servants do attend on thee,
    This harness'd masque and unadvised revel
  METELLUS CIMBER,     "          "     "
  DORCAS.    What, neither?
    But, sirrah, mark, we use
    Count Rousillon a widower; his vows are forfeited to me, and my

    But tie him not to be their bedfellow.
              Bid her alight
    Will we take throughly.
    Say we intend to try his Grace to-day,

  Hot. I have done, i' faith.
  AGAMEMNON. First, all you peers of Greece, go to my tent;  
  ALONSO. Now all the blessings
     perus'd, I find it not fit for your o'erlooking.
    I ever saw so noble.
  Ham. God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every man after his
  CLEOPATRA. It is my birthday.
    Blow like sweet roses in this summer air.
    If with his tongue he cannot win a woman.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Their brave pavilions: Priam's six-gated city,
  ULYSSES. Give pardon to my speech.
  SERGEANT. Doubtful it stood,
    And not betray thy treason with a blush?
    Would I perform, if I might have my will.
    That brought you forth this boy to keep your name

    To weep twixt clock and clock? If sleep charge nature,
    The King, your father, was reputed for
                           Re-enter SERVANT
    To bear him to my bower in fairy land.
    LORD SAY]  The proudest peer in the realm shall not wear a head
  SIWARD. The time approaches
    the meantime I will so fashion the matter that Hero shall be
    In top of all design, my mate in empire,

                        Enter Decius.
         Enter the GHOSTS of the two young PRINCES
    Beyond the mark of thought, and the high gods,
  PROVOST. In good time.                            Exit PROVOST
    She'ld come again, and with a greedy ear
    Shall harm Macbeth.                                Descends.

  PROSPERO. Thou hadst, and more, Miranda. But how is it
     Of my more fierce endeavour. [Stabs his arm.] I have seen
  COLVILLE. It is, my lord.
  All vows and consecrations giving place,
    That he shall likewise shuffle her away
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    For this affliction has a taste as sweet
    Cousin, thou wast not wont to be so dull.
  OLIVIA. How now! Art thou mad?  
    my daughter; you are no husband for her.
    gain to them. Let us revenge this with our pikes ere we become

    To speak unto this city: what say you?
    Whom the King hath in secrecy long married,
                     73
  Bene. Tarry, good Beatrice. By this hand, I love thee.
    For every man hath business and desire,
    In a poor isle; and all of us ourselves
    (For I fear Cassio with my nightcap too),
  COSTARD. The boy hath sold him a bargain, a goose, that's flat.
    Her inclination; let him not leave out
    strong.' What say you to that?
  Ham. He that plays the king shall be welcome- his Majesty shall
  BANQUO, Thane of Lochaber, a general in the King's army
    I follow him to serve my turn upon him:
  CAMILLO. Sent by the King your father
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    have spoke, you have courage to maintain it; I am bound to call
    May haply purchase him a box o' th' ear.
    court- and now has he land and beeves. Well, I'll be acquainted
    O heavy burthen!
    From such a noble rate; but my chief care
    'A bears him like a portly gentleman,
    Profess myself the winner of her honour,
                                           Exeunt all Commoners.
    Lays down his wanton siege before her beauty,
    That singes heaven's praise with such an earthly tongue.'
    Our baleful news and at each word's deliverance
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Becomes it thee to be thus bold in terms
    And will, I fear, revolt on Hereford's side.
    Some unborn sorrow, ripe in fortune's womb,
           Hound or spaniel, brach or lym,
    Can you, my Lord of Winchester, behold

  SATURNINUS. Rise, Titus, rise; my Empress hath prevail'd.
  CAESAR. I have eyes upon him,
    The rest were ragged, old, and beggarly;
    As often as we eat. By th' elements,
    weather-bitten conduit of many kings' reigns. I never heard of
    Davy; let me see- yea, marry, William cook, bid him come hither.
  CONSTABLE. Nay, for methought yesterday your mistress shrewdly
    Our late King, Richard, being infected, died.
    And here remain with your uncertainty!
    That chambers will be safe.
    But signs of nobleness, like stars, shall shine
  Betwixt mine eye and heart a league is took,
  MOTH. Of the sea-water green, sir.
  SECOND LADY. Who taught't this?
  MESSENGER. The Lord Grandpre.  
    Heaviness in me.
                                                        [Music.]
     Tell me what more thou know'st.
Alarum. Retreat. Enter YORK, RICHARD, WARWICK, and soldiers,
    Hath made thee hard in't. Why shouldst thou hate men?
    And so let me entreat you leave the house.
    Your crown content and you must be contented
    But none returns. For us to levy power
    In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes,
Enter LUCENTIO as CAMBIO, HORTENSIO as LICIO, and BIANCA
ACT II. SCENE I.
    and the lips; but this I can let you understand: the greater file
    Nothing is done to purpose. Therefore, beseech you-
    Did you yet ever see Baptista's daughter?
    purpose, I hope.

    But safer triumph is this funeral pomp

      The horn, the horn, the lusty horn,
    He comes upon a wish. Fortune is merry,
    Of ever-angry bears; it was a torment
  VAUX
  DUKE. But died thy sister of her love, my boy?
    And therefore will he wipe his tables clean,
    I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
     That would upon the rack of this tough world
    Who art the table wherein all my thoughts
    How like you this wild counsel, mighty states?
  QUEEN MARGARET. When holy Harry died, and my sweet
    How do you, Desdemona?  
    His liberal eye doth give to every one,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
ACT IV SCENE 4.
  ORLANDO. I swear to thee, youth, by the white hand of Rosalind, I
      Old Man, tenant to Gloucester.
    [Reads]'High and Mighty,-You shall know I am set naked on your
  LUCIUS. Dear father, soul and substance of us all-  
OFFICER. Two hundred ducats.
  DESDEMONA. Will you come to bed, my lord?
  BAPTISTA. Why, how now, daughter Katherine, in your dumps?
                         Enter CORIN
    In the which hope I blush, and hide my sword.
    Be factious for redress of all these griefs,
  ANTONIO. I once did lend my body for his wealth,
  Hero. Is it not Hero? Who can blot that name
  SANDYS. He may, my lord; has wherewithal. In him  
    firmament and it you cannot thrust a bodkin's point.
England. KING JOHN'S palace
                                                         Exit ULYSSES
    O that my death would stay these ruthful deeds!
  LADY FAULCONBRIDGE. Where is that slave, thy brother?  


    Thy exercise hath been too violent

    So think of your estate.
    And that bare vowel 'I' shall poison more
  THISBY. O wall, full often hast thou beard my moans,
A table set out. Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, and LORDS, like outlaws
  EUPHRONIUS. Such as I am, I come from Antony.
     According to my bond; no more nor less.
    Not mine to speak on't.
    ever his black shoe trod upon God's ground and his earth, in my
  DAVY. I hope to see London once ere I die.
    been a rod to her friends. You have not indeed loved the common
  LADY. I, madam.
    The back is sacrifice to th' load. They say
    Norway himself, with terrible numbers,
  And fetch the chain; by this I know 'tis made.
    discourse, my lord.
    And underneath that consecrated roof,
  KEEPER. Without, my noble lords?
    Wherefore I sent for you.
  MESSENGER. Ay, my good lord. Five talents is his debt;
    And so I am. Then crushing penury
    whom I know most faults.

  Cor. Still, still, far wide!
    Son to the elder brother of this man,  
    Or some about him near have, out of malice
    Delivers in such apt and gracious words
    To make strength stronger; but, for all our loves,
     Lag of a brother? Why bastard? wherefore base?
     offence, honesty! 'Tis strange.                       Exit.
  IAGO. That Cassio loves her, I do well believe it;
    safety and give over this attempt.
    Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
     With checks as flatteries, when they are seen abus'd.
  PETRUCHIO. I know she is an irksome brawling scold;
    Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?
    After the taste of much correction.
    He parted frowning from me, as if ruin
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM


  ALL SERVANTS. Here, here, sir; here, sir.
  Save where you are, how happy you make those.
    And give him from me this most needful note.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. 'Tis but the boldness of his hand haply, which

  ROSALIND. Nay, I prithee now, with most petitionary vehemence, tell
  Gent. She is importunate, indeed distract.
    I'll prove the prettier fellow of the two,

    To whom expressly I bring greeting too.
    Her wondrous qualities and mild behaviour,
    Her pretty action did outsell her gift,
    Take hence the rest, and give them burial here.       Exeunt
    Or is it Dian, habited like her,
    This boy, that cannot tell what he would have
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I'll serve you, sir, five hundred at the rate.
    Looking before and after, gave us not
    And in this state she 'gallops night by night
  BOLINGBROKE. Our scene is alt'red from a serious thing,
    Do as thou wilt, for I have done with thee.            Exit.
    In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,
    Afford no extraordinary gaze,
    In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
    As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
  DUKE. Respect to your great place! and let the devil
    This is the air-drawn dagger which you said
    A noble company! What are their pleasures?
    A caudle, ho!
    Avaunt, thou dreadful minister of hell!
    Does tire the ingener.

    And did request me to importune you
    And Crispin Crispian shall ne'er go by,
    No matter. Wear them, betray with them. Whore still;
  CLEOPATRA. Let it alone! Let's to billiards. Come, Charmian.
    Ours is the fall, I fear; our foes the snare.         Exeunt
    If that the former dare but what it can,
  YORK. My Lord of Suffolk, within fourteen days  
  HELENA. And even for that do I love you the more.
    That fallen am I in dark uneven way,
    Hangs on the cutting short that fraudful man.
     ha' bin zwagger'd out of my life, 'twould not ha' bin zo long as
    Whose see is by a civil peace maintain'd,
    Those at her father's churlish feet she tender'd;
    Before a friend of this description
  BASTARD. But there is little reason in your grief;


    I know not where is that Promethean heat
    And tragical, my noble lord, it is;
  FORD. Ay, ay; I must bear it.
  THIRD CITIZEN. We have been call'd so of many; not that our heads
    Is much beyond our loss. Our hint of woe
    To be contracted in one brow of woe,
    got off.
    Fear you the boar, and go so unprovided?
    warrant, quittance, or obligation-'Armigero.'
    Yet, for I know thou art religious
  Whereon the stars in secret influence comment.

                                              [Exit Regan, led.]
    chev'ril glove to a good wit. How quickly the wrong side may be
  Doct. Please you draw near. Louder the music there!
                     51  
    The rest o' th' island.
    Although we fancy not the Cardinal,
    For our bad neighbour makes us early stirrers,
    Exterior form, outward accoutrement,
    him, sirrah.
    I could not answer in that course of honour  

    For I am sure she is not buried.
  AMIENS. It will make you melancholy, Monsieur Jaques.
  DUKE. Pursue him, and entreat him to a peace;
    Poor I am stale, a garment out of fashion,
    And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven?
    Heart, once be stronger than thy continent,
    The mansion where!- 'twas at a feast- O, would
                                           Romeo opens the tomb.
  ORLANDO. O good old man, how well in thee appears  
  DIANA. Ay, my good lord.
     piece out the comfort with what addition I can. I will not be
    During all question of the gentle truce;
    Plotted and 'greed on for my happiness.

    In seeming to augment it wastes it? Be advis'd.

  BRAKENBURY. What, so brief?  
    Can pluck the diadem from faint Henry's head
    As I would serve a rat.'  
  Mess. I have already delivered him letters, and there appears much  
    Let me but bind it hard, within this hour
    And he and his competitors in oath
  Though slackly braided in loose negligence.
    Our peace we'll ratify; seal it with feasts.
  DUKE. Bound by my charity and my blest order,

    Behoves it us to labour for the realm.
SCENE II.

  Sweet beauty hath no name no holy bower,
    Ready they were to shoot me to the heart.
    See, Antony, that revels long o' nights,
  PRINCE OF Morocco. Mislike me not for my complexion,
    To him, I say.
         Since this fortune falls to you,
    For I'll refer me to all things of sense,
    beneficial news, it is the celebration of his nuptial. So much
    If he suppose that I have pleaded truth,
  Con. And thought they Margaret was Hero?
    With such a careless force and forceless care
    And so farewell. I would not have my father
    Buried this sigh in wrinkle of a smile.

  BANDITTI. Save thee, Timon!
    To equal my great fortune.
  TROILUS. No remedy.
    Those that we bury back, our monuments
    To change blows with thee for our day of doom.
  Thence comes it that my name receives a brand,
    Thou know'st, being stopp'd, impatiently doth rage;
    Which with such gentle sorrow he shook off,
    So far forth as herself might be her chooser,
    Thou art violently carried away from grace. There is a devil
    How does he, sirrah?
    What, have I chok'd you with an argosy?
  MOWBRAY. This had been cheerful after victory.
    And do some service to Duke Humphrey's ghost.
    When I have envied thy behaviour.
    To tread a measure with you on this grass.
    My foot shall fight with all the strength thou hast,
                                 Exeunt some with KING and QUEEN
    Look back into your mighty ancestors.
    no honest man dat shall come in my closet.
    From what a torment I did free thee?

  For forty ducats is too much to lose.
    No glory lives behind the back of such.
  ACHILLES. So I do. What's the matter?
    But how, is to be question'd; for I saw her,
    I understand a fury in your words,
    If I want gold, steal but a beggar's dog
    To do offence and scathe in Christendom.             [Drum beats]
    And not the King, that doth you injuries.  
    The book of his good acts whence men have read
                                                 [Exit Antonio.]
    To think but nobly of my grandmother:
     And not from one oppos'd.
    madman. [Reads madly ] 'By the Lord, madam-'
  DUKE. How came it that the absent Duke had not either deliver'd him
  My wife is in a wayward mood to-day,
    Because sweet flow'rs are slow and weeds make haste.  
    And whiter than the paper it writ on  
    How the world goes, that to the pace of it

    Of all incertainties himself commended,
    To play with mammets and to tilt with lips.
    For it is thine.  

  ALL. So all.
  BOLINGBROKE. Pale trembling coward, there I throw my gage,

    in time! Have napkins enow about you; here you'll sweat fort.
  WARWICK. Call for the music in the other room.
    Than Aquitaine so gelded as it is.
    Great Mars, I put myself into thy file;
    But I would have the soil of her fair rape
    and Bullcalf.
    That the probation bear no hinge nor loop
    One Hero died defil'd; but I do live,
    Hark further.
    The commonwealth is sick of their own choice;
    Princely in both.
    Each hurries toward his home and sporting-place.
  SATURNINUS. Friends, that have been thus forward in my right,
    Talk us to silence.
    And, Lavinia, thou shalt be employ'd in this;
    labour in his vocation.
    For she that scorn'd at me, now scorn'd of me;
    And seek how we may prejudice the foe.                Exeunt

  PAGE. Sir?
    coldest that ever turn'd up ace.
    Amongst a grove the very straightest plant;
    Death, desolation, ruin, and decay.
    At the sixth hour of morn, at noon, at midnight,  
      The violence of either grief or joy

  YORK. Assist me then, sweet Warwick, and I will;
    For fear they die before their pardon come.
    Get undescried.
    Therefore I will not disdain.
  MARCUS. What, what! the lustful sons of Tamora


    I would bend under any heavy weight  
    Which sixteen winters cannot blow away,
    I do not like these several councils, I.
    With one that saw him die, who did report
    was sick; I hope your lordship goes abroad by advice. Your
SCENE II.
    dissuade him from it; but he is resolute. I'll tell thee,
                        Enter Romeo.
    Her opulent throne with kingdoms. All the East,
    Continue still in this so good a mind,
    At Ravenspurgh.
    them, but chiefly by my villany, which did confirm any slander
  THOMAS HORNER, an armourer
    Nothing acquainted with these businesses;
         Kills for faults of his own liking!
    With many bitter threats of biding there.

  Fal. What's the matter? There be four of us here have ta'en a  
  KATHARINE. No, a fair lord calf.
    Of Blithild, which was daughter to King Clothair,
    Install'd Lord Archbishop of Canterbury.
    To greet mine own land with my wishful sight.  
    In fewer offices, or at least desist
              In those freckles live their savours.
    better bett'red expectation than you must expect of me to tell

    Till then I'll sweat and seek about for eases,
    The noble spirits to arms, they did perform
  FIRST WITCH. Here I have a pilot's thumb,
    To take her with him to the Isle of Man.
    Which my most inward true and duteous spirit

  PROTEUS. How! Julia!
  IACHIMO. Well, madam.
    Which I beseech you call a virtuous sin,
  PUCELLE. Assign'd am I to be the English scourge.
    Lest they should spy my windpipe's dangerous notes:
    If you accept them, then their worth is great.
    Swear me, Kate, like a lady as thou art,
  KING. You are right, Justice, and you weigh this well;
    A root of ancient envy. If Jupiter
    Kept him a foreign man still; which so griev'd him
    With which she followed my poor father's body
    It makes the course of thoughts to fetch about,
    When Caesar's head is off.
    Thy spirit within thee hath been so at war,
  My spirit is thine the better part of me,
    Out of my sight! Thou dost infect mine eyes.
    as mine is to thee.
    Into the danger of this adverse town;
  AENEAS
  Will play the tyrants to the very same,
    Had you been there, I think you would have begg'd
    Be there in person?
    Your lordships, that, whenever you have need,  

  Chiding that tongue that ever sweet,
  COUNTESS. You'll be gone, sir knave, and do as I command you.  
    Revolving this will teach thee how to curse.  
    To search you out.
    Upon the country where you make abode;
    Let's think in private more.                               Exeunt

    And by that loss your daughter is made Queen.  
    At Beaufort's pride, at Somerset's ambition,
    At any time speak aught?  
  Ham. The concernancy, sir? Why do we wrap the gentleman in our more
Enter Brutus in his orchard.

    And bear it from me to the Emperess.
    that will not, hold your tongues.
  Claud. And I, my lord.

ABBESS. Neither; he took this place for sanctuary,
    action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the
  Bene. If Signior Leonato be her father, she would not have his head

    Never to hope again.
    Thy Clarence he is dead that stabb'd my Edward;

    Let them not speak a word- the guilt is plain;
    friendship without security. Here's three solidares for thee.
  TIMON. What means that trump?
    That so he might recover what was lost.
  Corn. Bind him, I say.

    and I begin to love, as an old man loves money, with no stomach.
    Some little memory of me will stir him-
  LADY MACBETH, his wife
    commander with so slight, so drunken, and so indiscreet an
  HORTENSIO. Petruchio, shall I then come roundly to thee
    But sway'd and fashion'd by the hand of heaven.
    Last in the field and almost lords of it!
    May draw with you. There's millions now alive
  CAMPEIUS. Was he not held a learned man?
    I have got two worlds by't. O my gentle brothers,  
    epitaph is 'For O, for O, the hobby-horse is forgot!'
    Yourself into a power tyrannical;
    voyage.
    Away with him!
    And wonder of good deeds evilly bestow'd!
    How much you were my conqueror, and that
  Nurse. Mistress! what, mistress! Juliet! Fast, I warrant her, she.
  ANGELO. My lord, her wits, I fear me, are not firm;
    Has these poor men in question. Never saw I
    When you are waspish.
    His venom tooth will rankle to the death:
  SLENDER. I hope I have your good will, father Page.


    against me. I pray you choose another subject.
    Sirrah, thou art said to have a stubborn soul,  
    That liv'd amongst men.
    And I- God bless the mark!- his Moorship's ancient.
          Re-enter ARIEL, invisible, with music and song
  Alb. Bear them from hence. Our present business
    That art not what th'art sure of! Get thee hence.
    soul to-morrow,
    door? How now? What's the matter?
    The lineal glory of your royal house,
    That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
    Set forth in your pursuit.
    And was beheaded. Thus the Mortimers,
    Who though they cannot answer my distress,
    Must shuffle for itself.
  IAGO. [To Bianca.] What, look you pale? O, bear him out o' the air.
  LUCIO. By my troth, I'll go with thee to the lane's end. If bawdy
  MRS. PAGE. Hard by, at street end; he will be here anon.  
    Rent off thy silver hair, thy other hand
    Whose veins bound richer blood than Lady Blanch?
  PAROLLES. Your pleasure, sir?  
  DUKE. When came he to this town?
 ELY. It is.
  AUTOLYCUS. Neither.  
            Re-enter LUCIUS, QUINTUS, MARTIUS, and
    This is a trick to put me from my suit.  
    I rather of his absence make this use:
    So the boy Love is perjur'd everywhere;

    With fresh suspicions? No! To be once in doubt
    Bid them repair to th' market-place, where I,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Even now, even here, not half an hour since.
  KING HENRY. Then, good my lord, teach your cousin to consent
    death they have borne life away; and where they would be safe
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  BASTARD. Hubert, I think.
    Make my aunt merry with some pleasing tale.
        All unseen, can passage find;  
  MENENIUS. Consider further,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  VOLUMNIA. Away, you fool! It more becomes a man
    Importing health and graveness. Two months since
  MENAS. Then is Caesar and he for ever knit together.
    love that which my friend hates.
  BASTARD. As faithfully as I deny the devil.
    And all the unlawful issue that their lust
    If you do say we think him over-proud
    The noise of battle hurtled in the air,
          Heavily, heavily,
    In very likeness of a roasted crab,
    If heaven be pleas'd that you must use me ill,
    And I for my escape have put on his;

    Prince your brother, I owe you all duty.
    If any thing more than your sport and pleasure
  CORIOLANUS. Scratches with briers,
    Or thy precedent services are all
  CASCA. Why, there was a crown offered him, and being offered him,
    That so neglected you.
  OTHELLO. Think on thy sins.
     Confin'd to exhibition? All this done
  SHYLOCK. Nay, take my life and all, pardon not that.
    That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,  
    Caius.
  TIMON. Long live so, and so die! [Exit APEMANTUS] I am quit. More
    Which, to the spire and top of praises vouch'd,
    Men's evil manners live in brass: their virtues
    Nor fortune made such havoc of my means,
  YOUNG CLIFFORD. And so to arms, victorious father,
    you too; but my powers are there already. The King, I can tell
  IAGO. I see, sir, you are eaten up with passion;
    And spit it bleeding in his high disgrace,
  King. Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Foul shame upon you! you have all
  PRINCE JOHN. I like them all and do allow them well;
                         Enter PAROLLES
    With secrets.
    Till my attempt so much be glorified  
    Grief of my son's exile hath stopp'd her breath.
    Full of sad thoughts and troubles.
  Samp. A dog of that house shall move me to stand. I will take the

    There's other work in hand. I see a thing
  IACHIMO. Either your unparagon'd mistress is dead, or she's
    Look, in this place ran Cassius' dagger through;

  IMOGEN. I am sprited with a fool;
    He is at Milford Haven. Read, and tell me
                       Enter AGAMEMNON
  PANDARUS. Ay, you may, you may.
    And Jove forbid there should be done amongst us
    The third possessor; ay, he was the third-
    And yet here's one in place I cannot pardon.
    And not till then.
     That follow'd me so near (O, our lives' sweetness!
    These flow'rs are like the pleasures of the world;
    For brave Macbeth -well he deserves that name-
    Was borne so like a soldier that thy cheek
    That these great tow'rs, trophies, and schools, should fall
    With an importing visage; and she told me
    th' church, I would have swing'd him, or he should have
    Wicked and vile; and so her death concludes.
    And vows to crown himself in Westminster.
  AENEAS. I was sent for to the King; but why, I know not.
          matron, his WIFE, and mother to POSTHUMUS, with
     What, have you writ that letter to my sister?


    No great offence belongs to't, give your friend
    His present and your pains we thank you for.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Within this hour I was his bondman, sir,
    But more devout than this in our respects  
                                              [Opening a letter]
    Thy mother's dead.
    In England the most valiant gentleman.
  HENRY BEAUFORT, great-uncle to the King, BISHOP OF WINCHESTER,
  TROILUS. Fears make devils of cherubims; they never see truly.
    shoulders that a milkmaid, if she be in love, may sigh it off.
Enter Old Capulet, his Wife, and Paris.
    So fare you well till we shall meet again.
  FOURTH CITIZEN. We'll hear the will. Read it, Mark Antony.
    Yet cam'st thou to a morsel of this feast,
    As to upbraid you with those kindnesses

    Your eyes are lode-stars and your tongue's sweet air
    And see the revolution of the times
  She is so hot because the meat is cold,
    householder; and which is more, as pretty a piece of flesh as any
    not a word more.

    The repetition in a woman's ear
  SECOND CAPTAIN. Lay hands on him; a dog!
    So hot a speed with such advice dispos'd,
    death is to him advantage; or not dying, the time was blessedly
    in his sleep he does little harm, save to his bedclothes about
    Though you are old enough to be my heir.
  Or laid great bases for eternity,
  RICHARD. An oath is of no moment, being not took
    Nor when thy warlike father, like a child,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  Capt. 'Tis true, my lords, he did.

  GUIDERIUS. Uncertain favour!
    That have beheld me give away myself
  ISABELLA. I am directed by you.
    That we shall see and know our friends in heaven;
    An envious thrust from Tybalt hit the life
       Enter Desdemona, Emilia Iago, Roderigo, and Attendants.
  IMOGEN. Past hope, and in despair; that way past grace.
  LADY GREY. Ay, full as dearly as I love myself.
    But, lovely niece, that mean is cut from thee.
    Vanquish my staider senses. What's the matter?
  FLAMINIUS. I thank you, sir.

    My Lord of Somerset will keep me here
  KING PHILIP. A noble boy! Who would not do thee right?
    With scraps o' th' court- it is no contract, none.
    I throw my warlike shield! Lay on, Macduff,
    Whether it be the fault and glimpse of newness,
    As fast as mill-wheels strike. Then was this island-


  OTHELLO. I kiss the instrument of their pleasures.
    Adieu,
  AGUECHEEK. Here's the challenge; read it. I warrant there's vinegar
   How now for mitigation of this bill
    All of companionship.

         O, what may man within him hide,
    Render me worthy of this noble wife! Knocking within.
    My soul hath her content so absolute
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    In a new channel fair and evenly.
    general is gone, with one part of our Roman power. Your lord and
  BARDOLPH. Yea, my lord.
    And would conceive for what I gave the ring,
    Saying I lik'd her ere I went to wars.
  PROSPERO. You'd be king o' the isle, sirrah?

    As market-men for oxen, sheep, or horse.  
    As confident as is the falcon's flight
    Lest thou increase the number of the dead,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Even with the having; it is not so with thee.
  Laer. My dread lord,
    That was the whip of your bragg'd progeny,  
    You chide at him, offending twice as much:
                                                [Exit Bardolph.]
    My lord, kneel down with me; Lavinia, kneel;
  Hot. Then to the point.

    Bashful sincerity and comely love.
    Is this of hers? Lord Cardinal, will your Grace
  HOST. Let him die. Sheathe thy impatience; throw cold water  
    What, is Horatio there ?
    For, were he, he had shown it in his looks.
      letter?
    I afeard of him! A very weak monster! The Man i' th'
    My love, her mistress, is a gracious moon;
    Such war of white and red within her cheeks!
                          partisans.
    By her election may be truly read
    Methought their souls whose bodies Richard murder'd
    snow from off their cassocks lest they shake themselves to
  Queen. Come, let me wipe thy face.
  MENAS. No, Pompey, I have kept me from the cup.
    That I must love a loathed enemy.
    his state as a thing made for Alexander. What he bids be done is
    She hath not seen the change of fourteen years;
    To you for gold to pay my legions,
    Were of an age. Well, Susan is with God;
    I still pour in the waters of my love,
    service. Lend me thy hand, I'll help thee. Come, lend me thy
    furnish man withal.
  IAGO. She did deceive her father, marrying you;

    Where, if you bring not Marcius, we'll proceed
  Which she perused, sighed, tore, and gave the flood;
             With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
  Lear. Follow me not;
            From her his dearest one,
     Hear me one word.
    Plead for our interest and our being here.  
    That mortal ears might hardly endure the din?
  ROSALINE. Not one word more, my maids; break off, break off.
    ask'd. Shall the son of England prove a thief and take purses? A
    I would these dewy tears were from the ground.
    To do your pleasure, and continue friends.
    Should die for ever.
  WOLSEY. My Lord Sandys,
    As man and wife, being two, are one in love,

  TIMON. How dost thou like this jewel, Apemantus?
    He hath not touch'd you yet. I am young, but something

  SERVILIUS. Upon my soul, 'tis true, sir.
THE END
    If he be absent, bring his brother to me;
    Clarence, beware; thou keep'st me from the light,
    The continent and summary of my fortune.
    A frank one.

    You have no children, butchers, if you had,
  ANTONIO. I hold the world but as the world, Gratiano-
    Of man and country-
  OTHELLO. Ay, and for that thou diest.
    A leaner action rend us. What's amiss,

  SHALLOW. No, Sir John; it is my cousin Silence, in commission with
    I will not dine until I see the same.
    Because his purpose is not executed.
  WHITMORE. The Duke of Suffolk muffled up in rags?
    And let another half stand laughing by,

Re-enter LUCIANA with a purse
    For in the temple, by and by, with us
    I will send him hither to you presently.           Exit DUKE
    Yea, even my foes will shed fast-falling tears
                                       The Lady speaks in Welsh.
    There's something else to do; hush, and be mute,
  HOST. I will hear you, Master Fenton; and I will, at the least,
  Featured like him, like him with friends possessed,
      are near her.  
  KING RICHARD. Even all I have-ay, and myself and all


    Who ever would have thought it? Romeo!
    Shall be my surety; fore whose throne 'tis needful,
    Upon this spotted and inconstant man.
    have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes
    fac'd spirit that mutinies in a man's bosom; it fills a man
    What his high hatred would effect wants not
    I was about to say, enjoy your- But
                                    Exit [bearing off the body].
    And let the stinking elder, grief, untwine  
    Lord Chancellor in your place.
    As now we meet. You have deceiv'd our trust
    Adam had left him before he transgress'd. She would have made
    Tybalt, Mercutio, the Prince expressly hath
    I'll fight their legions o'er.
  APEMANTUS. The middle of humanity thou never knewest, but the
  MALVOLIO. 'Tis but fortune; all is fortune. Maria once told me she
    creatures, would even renew me with your eyes. Take notice that I
    To get his place, and to plume up my will
    That bate and beat, and will not be obedient.
    There lock yourself, and send him word you are dead.
                       [Enter a Messenger.]
    The violence of either thee becomes,
    To live and burn in everlasting fire,
    O, would thou wert as thou tofore hast been!
  Let's call more help to have them bound again.

  O appetite, from judgement stand aloof!
  HASTINGS. Hath the Prince John a full commission,
    brokers between Pandars. Say 'Amen.'
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    But I am troubled here with them myself;
    Bearing the King in my behalf along;
    Hold unbewail'd their way. Welcome to Rome;
    Till the Prince came, who parted either part.
  LAUNCELOT. That is done, sir; they have all stomachs.
    dare scarce come thither.
  CHARLES. It shall;
    Seem they in motion? Here are sever'd lips,
  FIRST CONSPIRATOR. Your native town you enter'd like a post,
    common lag of people, what is amiss in them, you gods, make
  DOLL. So you do, hostess.
    About a certain question in the law
                                     and the people are beat in]
    And while I pause serve in your harmony.
    seventeen poniards are at thy bosom.
    took them for.
    Stay but a little, for my cloud of dignity
    You left poor Henry at the Bishop's palace,
    Henry the Fourth, grandfather to this king,
                          Re-enter CATESBY
    but these that accuse him in his intent towards our
    Like warlike as the wolf for what we eat.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  OLIVER. Know you where you are, sir?
    Are with his Highness very ordinary.
    any but these boil'd brains of nineteen and two and twenty hunt
    The chapel where they lie; and tears shed there
    All that pass by. It cannot hold; no reason
  PANDARUS. Good morrow, cousin Cressid. What do you talk of?- Good
  ROSALIND. Why do you speak too, 'Why blame you me to love you?'
  PAROLLES. 'Tis not his fault, the spark.
    When this same lusty gentleman was got.
    That I have pass'd.
    Shall I obtain it?
    Unto his honour has my lord's meat in him;
    But that thy brothers beat aside the point.
    Have sent a dozen sequent messengers
    My grandam told me he was murder'd there.
    This senior-junior, giant-dwarf, Dan Cupid;
    To cease! Wast thou ordain'd, dear father,
  MARDIAN. Not in deed, madam; for I can do nothing
    Which, since, succeeding ages have re-edified.
    Being banish'd for't, he came unto my hearth,

              As great Sicilius' heir.
    civil count--civil as an orange, and something of that jealous
    Becomes it thee to taunt his valiant age
  Glou. Strong and fast'ned villain!
    Poor tributary rivers as sweet fish.
  FIRST SENATOR. All have not offended;
    If you offend him, I for him defy you.
  PISTOL. Yield, cur!
  LUCETTA. What would your ladyship?
  MACBETH. Accursed be that tongue that tells me so,
    What majesty is in her gait? Remember,
  ANTONY. Here is the will, and under Caesar's seal.
    I have not known when his affections sway'd
    Sometimes our brother's wife. This respite shook
    Minds sway'd by eyes are full of turpitude.                  Exit
    Which entertain'd, limbs are his instruments,
    With tapestry of silk and silver; the story,
    So children temporal fathers do appease;

    In an extravagant and wheeling stranger
    I came to talk of. Tell me, daughter Juliet,
  CLOWN. To do this is within the compass of man's wit, and therefore  
  Glou. The King is mad. How stiff is my vile sense,
  BIONDELLO. The old priest at Saint Luke's church is at your command
  KING HENRY. But did you never swear, and break an oath?
    Those mouthed wounds, which valiantly he took
  LORD. With all my heart. This fellow I remember
    ready to crack with impatience. Who says this is improvident
Mantua. A street.
    With honour of his birthright to the crown.
    That curtsy to them, do them reverence,
    Who sensibly outdares his senseless sword,
    To one man's honour, this contagious sickness,
    That I may tell pale-hearted fear it lies,
    And here commit you to my Lord Cardinal
  THERSITES. Ay, do, do; thou sodden-witted lord! Thou hast no more
    Denounc'd against thee are all fall'n upon thee;
  GLOUCESTER. Eleanor, the law, thou seest, hath judged thee.
    meteyard, and spare not me.
  PHEBE. Know'st thou the youth that spoke to me erewhile?
    Especially against his very friend.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I am glad to see you in this merry vein.
  YORK. Ay, mother; but I would not have it so.
  BEROWNE. Speak for yourselves; my wit is at an end.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  QUEEN MARGARET. Go rate thy minions, proud insulting boy.
    out ere he come?
  CRESSIDA. I am your debtor; claim it when 'tis due.
  SATURNINUS. Traitor, if Rome have law or we have power,
    And put your trial in the villain's mouth
    You maim'd the jurisdiction of all bishops.
    Though thou didst learn, had that in't which good natures
    In thy hands clutch'd as many millions, in
    Therefore be deaf to my unpitied folly,
    Have sold their lives unto the house of York;
  Edg. Come on, sir; here's the place. Stand still. How fearful
    The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. That thou dost love my daughter from
    And tumble me into some loathsome pit,
    Though in your state of honor I am perfect.
                       Enter a SERVANT
    Is three long hours; yet she is not come.
    All school-days' friendship, childhood innocence?  
    Art thou not Romeo, and a Montague?
  CITIZENS. Now the gods keep you!
    for drinking. I could well wish courtesy would invent some other
  FLAMINIUS. My lord-
    And happily may your sweet self put on
    I will not.
    I make you both Protectors of this land,
  Oph. No, my lord.
    Lies my consent and fair according voice.
    Of whom thy father, Prince of Wales, was first.

    So sweet was ne'er so fatal. I must weep,
    As from your graves rise up, and walk like sprites

     That must destroy thee.
  AIARIA. If you will then see the fruits of the sport, mark his
    Or piteous they will look, like drowned mice.
    With willing sport, to the wild ocean.
  The painful warrior famoused for fight,
    Of Count Orsino.
    By God, he shall not have a Scot of them!
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    To give the onset to thy good advice.  
    Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
    I'll take her to my guard.
    his house-eaves because they are lecherous. The Duke yet would

    Perchance shall dry your pities- but I have
  CHIRON. Aaron, I see thou wilt not trust the air
    The fish lives in the sea, and 'tis much pride
            Iago from behind wounds Cassio in the leg, and exit.
  Laer. How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
  GAUNT. Alas, the part I had in Woodstock's blood
             [As the SPIRIT speaks, SOUTHWELL writes the answer]
    Yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve,
  CLARENCE. I mind to tell him plainly what I think.
  ALONSO. You cram these words into mine ears against
    Was set in worse than gold. They have in England
  CYMBELINE. Heard you all this, her women?  
    maid is undone.

    There's many have committed it.
    If I lov'd many words, lord, I should tell you
  LEONTES. Thou want'st a rough pash and the shoots that I have,  
    How modest in exception, and withal  
    The best way is to venge my Gloucester's death.
  AGAMEMNON. So now, fair Prince of Troy, I bid good night;
    kind of taste- well, my conscience says 'Launcelot, budge not.'

    perhaps a hackney. But have you forgot your love?
  PANDULPH. It was my breath that blew this tempest up,
    But smother'd it within my panting bulk,
    Shall be lamented, pitied, and excus'd
    And in good time, here the lieutenant comes.

  GLOUCESTER. What doth she say, my Lord of Buckingham?
    Do you neglect them?
    And what thou hast, forget'st. Thou art not certain;
London. The Palace.
  DUCHESS. What dream'd my lord? Tell me, and I'll requite it
  PANDARUS. What, not between Troilus and Hector? Do you know a man
    And never seen thee, never borne thee son,
          And bawds and whores do churches build:
  LEWIS, the Dauphin                DUKE OF BURGUNDY
  PAULINA. Here's ado, to lock up honesty and honour from  
    Follow me.                                              Exit
    To appease an angry god.
    To stain my cousin with. One doth not know
    What cannot be eschew'd must be embrac'd.
  IAGO. Signior Gratiano? I cry you gentle pardon;
    And look on their endeavour.                          Exeunt
    For I am on the sudden something ill.
    To keep in darkness what occasion now
  SHEPHERD. Ah, Joan, this kills thy father's heart outright!
    Therefore thou best of gold art worst of gold.  
    And choke your good to come. For his possessions,
  Ham. [comes forward] What is he whose grief  
  Mess. He hath done good service, lady, in these wars.
  PAGE
  GOWER. Why, here he comes, swelling like a turkey-cock.
    Take him, and use him well, he's worthy of it.
    A fearful army, led by Caius Marcius
    No, Exeter, these graces challenge grace;

  1. Mus. Faith, we may put up our pipes and be gone.
    it be rememb'red in his punishment. And also the watch heard them
    But where, to say the truth, I do not know.
    How doth my lady? Is my father well?  
  BELARIUS. Look, here he comes,
    None can be call'd deform'd but the unkind.
    Thy spirits are most tall.
  Clown. Of all the days i' th' year, I came to't that day that our
    That I return'd with simular proof enough
  VALENTINE. Now trust me, madam, it came hardly off;
    paper; God give him grace to groan!
  Transform me, then, and to your pow'r I'll yield.
Enter Edgar.
            Enter BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Methinks you are my glass, and not my brother;

    And tell false Edward, thy supposed king,
    And I, delivering you, am satisfied,
    lock hanging by it, and borrows money in God's name, the which he
    Before, I lov'd thee as a brother, John;
    Where death and danger dogs the heels of worth.
     'Tis from your sister.
  Hor. There's no offence, my lord.
    But in oblivion and hateful griefs.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. The loss of such a lord includes all
  GAOLER. What an infinite mock is this, that a man should have the
    Are fifty thousand strong.
    For hither we have broken in by force.

          The knave turns fool that runs away;
    To keep them from uncivil outrages.  
    Will be some danger; which for to prevent,
    That he ran mad and died.
    Farre than Deucalion off. Mark thou my words.
    to Armado, a soldier, a man of travel, that hath seen the world;
  SIR TOBY. Sweet Sir Andrew!
    This lord go to him! Jupiter forbid,
    Whilst any trump did sound or drum struck up,
    So I return rebuked to my content,
    Like man new made.
  TIMON. To Lacedaemon did my land extend.
  AJAX. What is he more than another?
  PISTOL. By this leek, I will most horribly revenge- I eat and eat,
    usurp'd.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. It was well done of you to take him at his

  THIRD CITIZEN. Certainly;
  ENOBARBUS. Be witness to me, O thou blessed moon,
  The aloes of all forces, shocks and fears.
  BASTARD. Who didst thou leave to tend his Majesty?  
    Whom it concerns to hear this matter forth,
    How is it with you, my most fair Bianca?
  KING HENRY. In God's name, lead; your King's name be obey'd;
    To wear our moral state to come with her,
    keep him tame, and get to Naples with him, he's a
KING JOHN
     Nor are those empty-hearted whose low sound
  CRESSIDA. Is he so young a man and so old a lifter?
    So out of circumstance and sudden, tells us
    And leave me out on't. Would I had no being,
    then thou mightst kill 'em, and bid me to 'em.
    Go, bid her hide him quickly from the Duke.
    Shall make thy peace for moving me to rage;
    E'er since pursue me.
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
    I'll over then to England with this news,
  And captive good attending captain ill.
    Claudio prepar'd. I am made to understand that you have lent him
    Answer'd neglectingly, I know not what-
    Tell him the Emperor and the Empress too  
    To be but nam'd of thee. His mean'st garment
Enter ANTIGONUS with the CHILD, and a MARINER
    More rancorous spite, more furious raging broils,
  AJAX. Will you subscribe his thought and say he is?
    Go show your slaves how choleric you are,
    kind of the Launces have this very fault. I have receiv'd my
    Why, do you not perceive the jest?
    And presently, when you have drawn your number,
    You shall know many dare accuse you boldly,
    Most pestilent to th' hearing; and to bear 'em
THE END
    That frowns on me looks sadly upon him.
    anon over-read it at your pleasure, where you shall find within
  WILLIAMS. I am no traitor.  
  ALL. No more talking on't; let it be done. Away, away!
    Here stand I, lady- dart thy skill at me,
  FIRST SOLDIER. We'll see what may be done, so you confess freely;
    Foes to my rest, and my sweet sleep's disturbers,
    nowhere but in's own house. Farewell.
    more sympathy. You love sack, and so do I; would you
    lizard, an owl, a put-tock, or a herring without a roe, I would
  ANNE. Set down, set down your honourable load-
    "Glamis hath murther'd sleep, and therefore Cawdor
    Most of the rest slaughter'd or took likewise.
    shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose  

  LEONTES. Do not draw the curtain.

    It is the law, not I condemn your brother.
  And dost him grace when clouds do blot the heaven:
    'Let him shun castles;
    recover'd it.
    And in my voice most welcome shall you be.
    And bootless make the breathless housewife churn,
    Under the tide of John Mortimer.
  For still temptation follows where thou art.
  Laer. My will, not all the world!
    heart.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
Enter DROMIO OF EPHESUS
  GARDENER. Depress'd he is already, and depos'd
    Been less, and so more equal ballasting
    Will show you his estate.        [BASSANIO opens the letter]
               Among nine bad if one be good,
    Use careful watch, choose trusty sentinels.

     May equally determine.
  CASCA. You shall confess that you are both deceived.
    To wipe out our ingratitude with loves
    This apish and unmannerly approach,
  Ham. The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
    Reignier, Duke of Anjou, doth take his part;
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    sinners? I am myself indifferent honest, but yet I could accuse
  PAULINA. That she is living,
  TIMON. Love you the maid?
    No messenger but thine, and all alone
    Intend here to besiege you in your castle.
    A hand as fruitful as the land that feeds us;
    That you create our Emperor's eldest son,
    Or that we quit this place. Let's draw our weapons.
  PRINCE OF MOROCCO. O hell! what have we here?
    For this one wish, that you had power and wealth
    That in your outward action shows itself

    he hath faults, with surplus, to tire in repetition.  [Shouts  
    Fare you well, my dove!
    And take a bond of fate: thou shalt not live,
  GARDENER. Poor Queen, so that thy state might be no worse,
  Osr. How is't, Laertes?
  LAFEU. Nay, come your ways.
    Nor iron on his heel! I am asham'd
    Away, my lord, away!                                  Exeunt
                                                Exit [Polonius].  
    In the disposing of new dignities.
    Hold, take this letter. Early in the morning
    For he hath laid strange courtesies and great
    To praise my noble act. I hear him mock
    ready to famish! These five days have I hid me in these woods and
    You are welcome, sir, to Cyprus. Goats and monkeys!
    Too hideous to be shown. Thou dost mean something.
    With that malignant cause wherein the honour
  It seems he hath great care to please his wife.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
    His fits, his frenzy, and his bitterness?
by William Shakespeare
    be more jealous of thee than a Barbary cock-pigeon over his hen,
     With a more riotous appetite.
    The fits o' the season. I dare not speak much further;
    This dangerous conception in this point:
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Nor can we be distinguish'd by our faces
    To the expecters of our Troyan part;
    Study to break it, and not break my troth.
    Such valour in the bearing, what make we

ACT I. SCENE I.
    For all the world like cutler's poetry
  ACHILLES. 'Tis but early days.

  CLOWN. Ay, sir.
    Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.
    And, by my fall, the conquest to my foe.
ADRIANA. I did not, gentle husband, lock thee forth.
    What is it then to me if impious war,
     in?
    Not like a guest; so you shall pay your fees
    Whose vows are that no bed-rite shall be paid
  ARMADO. [To MOTH] Chirrah!
    Glancing an eye of pity on his losses,

  MENENIUS. Ay, but mildly.
    Clarence still breathes; Edward still lives and reigns;
    And maidens call it Love-in-idleness.  
    From her inaidable estate-I say we must not
    pass; for I must tell thee it will please his Grace, by the
    The dangers of the days but newly gone,
    And shed my dear blood drop by drop in the dust,
    Is noble Timon, of whose memory
    If thou deniest it twenty times, thou liest;
  Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,
    You sleeping safe, they bring to you unrest;
    rice? But my father hath made her mistress of the feast, and she
    Otherwhiles the famish'd English, like pale ghosts,
  RODERIGO.                      Patience, good sir.
    To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
  KING HENRY. Is that the worst this letter doth contain?  
  OTHELLO.                      What hath he said?
    And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
  But not a thousand marks between you both.
    O, an you will have me live, play 'Heart's ease.'
    Unseen, unvisited, much to our shame.
  AUMERLE. An if I do not, may my hands rot of
    As loath to bear me to the slaughter-house.
     In expectation of them. O dear father,
    My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites-
    Our navy is address'd, our power connected,
  MACDUFF. This avarice
    I think that thou art just, and think thou art not.
  BAPTISTA. Didst thou not say he comes?
    Wherein I am false I am honest; not true, to be true.
    To the last man.
    A wife?
     And each man have enough. Dost thou know Dover?
    That would not bless our Europe with your daughter,
  Threw my affections in his charmed power
    That it alone is high fantastical.
  My love looks fresh, and death to me subscribes,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE


    And, partly, seeing you are beautified  
    And wager on your heads. He, being remiss,
    voice on you. You must therefore be content to slubber the gloss
  But thou, to whom my jewels trifles are,
  FERDINAND, MIRANDA. We wish your peace.                 Exeunt
  
    And pitied me, and kindly kiss'd my cheek;
     For pilf'rings and most common trespasses
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    earthly, no nobler- whither do you follow your eyes so fast?
    Could we but learn from whence his sorrows grow,
    And thou a prince, Protector of this land,
    Should lose his birthright by his father's fault,  
    Early though't be, have on their riveted trim,  
    And, by my troth, I think thou lov'st me well.
    I have not from your eyes that gentleness
    Now come I to my father: 'Father, your blessing.' Now should not
    And end his being. That done, he lets me go,
  Laer. [aside] And yet it is almost against my conscience.
  
  SECOND MURDERER. I'll not meddle with it-it makes a man
    Before he'll buy again at such a rate.

    From her shall read the perfect ways of honour,  
    To take her by the hand and bid her go,
                                        The Lady again in Welsh.
            With orange-tawny bill,

    Pard, or boar with bristled hair,  
    The ingratitude of this Seleucus does
    But who comes here, led by a lusty Goth?
PINCH. It is no shame; the fellow finds his vein,
    Could ever yet cut breath? Let no man mock me,
    Who cannot condemn rashness in cold blood?
    My voice is in my sword, thou bloodier villain
  OTHELLO. Nor I.
    this shall end without the perdition of souls. [Aside] Marry,
       Re-enter PEDANT below; BAPTISTA, TRANIO, and SERVANTS
    We had a kind of light what would ensue.
SCENE IV.
    Is heavy in my tongue. The King your father-
    Would all themselves laugh mortal.
    question of the play be then to be considered. That's villanous
                                                  Exit MRS. FORD
  Reg. Thus out of season, threading dark-ey'd night.
  Edm. Take them away.
    Hercules; but beware instinct. The lion will not touch the true

    Arise, and say how thou cam'st here.
             Hop as light as bird from brier;
Enter Lucius, with three STRANGERS
                     11  
    Bethink thee on her virtues that surmount,
    Leave procreants alone and shut the door;
    Appoint a meeting with this old fat fellow,
    Or vainly comes th' admired princess hither.
    O, burn her, burn her! Hanging is too good.             Exit
    I am in Parliament pledge for his truth
  Fort. This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death,
    About the marriage of the Lady Bona.
  BIONDELLO. Nay, faith, I'll see the church a your back, and then
    This likewise is a friend.
    This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
  TROILUS. For th' love of all the gods,  
  Bene. With anger, with sickness, or with hunger, my lord; not with
    What valour were it, when a cur doth grin,
  But with these nails I'll pluck out these false eyes
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Or foul felonious thief that fleec'd poor passengers,
  Lear. And the creature run from the cur? There thou mightst behold
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  DIOMEDES. Where's Antony?
    By custom of the coronation.
    Good night and good repose.
    And sleep in spite of thunder.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Like Muscovites or Russians, as I guess.
  O how I faint when I of you do write,
    In hope thyself should govern Rome and me.
    A rotten case abides no handling.


    Thou, being a king, bless'd with a goodly son,
    Contend against thy valour. Know thou first,
                            Enter Goneril.
    Our pleasure his full fortune doth confine;  
  Doug. Here.
  And now let's go hand in hand, not one before another.
    Comes from my pate as birdlime does from frieze;
    Should hazard such a place as his own second
    That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
  But thou contracted to thine own bright eyes,
                    Enter a Messenger.
  PEDANT. Lay hands on the villain; I believe 'a means to cozen

  Nature's bequest gives nothing but doth lend,
    with the edge of a feather-bed-here are simple scapes. Well, if
    Unpeopled offices, untrodden stones?
    Be blam'd for't how you might.
    Where Cressid lay that night.

    Heigh-ho! sing, &c.
    Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?  
    But when his fair course is not hindered,
    But were you banish'd for so small a fault?
    Strange that his power should be. Canidius,
    However this may gall him with some check,
    Foretold should be his last-full of repentance,

    These dangerous unsafe lunes i' th' King, beshrew them!
    Did all the chivalry of England move
    what they can; I will walk up and down here, and will sing, that
<Exit
    As easily as I do tear his paper.
    Have ever made me sour my patient cheek
  DEMETRIUS. I charge thee, hence, and do not haunt me thus.
ACT IV. SCENE 1.
    And lay new platforms to endamage them.  
    Are of imagination all compact.
  TIMON. Under that's above me.
  JULIA. Say, say, who gave it thee?  

A farmhouse near Gloucester's Castle.
    Yet I alone, alone do me oppose
    A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
     Beyond what can be valued, rich or rare;  

  Hamlet, son to the former, and nephew to the present king.
  AUTOLYCUS. Why, this is a passing merry one, and goes to the tune
  CLOWN. Not so, sir; I do care for something; but in my conscience,
    gloves or their handkerchers; which makes much against my
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. But where's the money?
    Full weak to undertake our wars against
    Did show ourselves i' th' field; and to that end
    The trial just and noble. All the clerks,
    Than such an one to reign.
  MACBETH. How now, you secret, black, and midnight hags?
  MENENIUS. For that, being one o' th' lowest, basest, poorest,
    Upon my life, she finds, although I cannot,
  IACHIMO. As fair and as good- a kind of hand-in-hand comparison-
    A heart unspotted is not easily daunted.
     the King. I will seek him and privily relieve him. Go you and
     But other of your insolent retinue
    fiddlestick; here's that shall make you dance. Zounds, consort!

  SECOND FAIRY.  Weaving spiders, come not here;
  KING. O Lord Archbishop,
     Lady the brach may stand by th' fire and stink.
    I tell thee what- get thee to church a Thursday
  BRUTUS. I am not gamesome; I do lack some part
    And never more behold thy face again.
    Look where they come!
  Lady. [within] Ho, daughter! are you up?
  GLOUCESTER. Why, that's well said. What colour is my gown of?
    O Desdemon! dead, Desdemon! dead!

    love, or that you will be in love, or that you can be in love.
    My foolish rival, that her father likes
London. The Tower
    Of deaths put on by cunning and forc'd cause;
  Ham. Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak! I'll go no further.
     'Tis she is subcontracted to this lord,
  DICK. Only that the laws of England may come out of your mouth.
    His beastly mind to us, he hath a court
    From these sad thoughts that work too much upon him.
  SHYLOCK. Why, look you, how you storm!
  Rom. Ay, so I fear; the more is my unrest.
    hear their detractions and can put them to mending. They say the
    Here comes the Emperor.
  Reg. Such unconstant starts are we like to have from him as this
SCENE III.
    Offer'st me brass?
    With its sweet air; thence I have follow'd it,
    Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds;
  FALSTAFF. What! a young knave, and begging! Is there not wars? Is
             'Twixt the souls of friend and friend;
    Than in a nuncio's of more grave aspect.
    Not to be seen. My crown is call'd content;
  ENOBARBUS. How appears the fight?
    If this might be a brother.  

            Re-enter SERVANT
    And she a mourning widow of her nobles,
    Let's step into the shadow of these trees.
  YORK. Base dunghill villain and mechanical,
     Strike!                                        [Beats him.]  
    difference betwixt their two estates; Love no god, that would not
    Doth not thy blood thrill at it?
    Such to-be-pitied and o'er-wrested seeming
    hath lain asleep in the sun. Didst thou not fall out with a

    Know, Cade, we come ambassadors from the King
    How came it yours?
Enter KATHERINE and ALICE
    In his behalf.
  OTHELLO.                                      Who's there?
  Yet be most proud of that which I compile,
    Vaughan, and all that have miscarried
    Can this dark monarchy afford false Clarence?'
  QUEEN MARGARET. Thy woes will make them sharp and
    Nor stony tower, nor walls of beaten brass,
  No shape so true, no truth of such account,
    wear nothing handsome about him. In brief, since I do purpose to
  But out alack, he was but one hour mine,
  LADY MACDUFF. Everyone.  
    Or all my fence shall fail.
    Throng to the bar, crying all 'Guilty! guilty!'
    Of him that caus'd it.
    discoveries!
     You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout
    The King's disease-my project may deceive me,

    And notwithstanding all her sudden quips,
    tears.
    For good Lord Titus' innocence in all,
    I am content to look on; what to speak

    From th' inward of thee? One but painted thus
    case is miserable.                                    Exeunt
    That thou wilt use the wars as thy redress

  PARIS. 'Tis Troilus' fault. Come, come to field with him.
    And overlook their grafters?
     But kept a reservation to be followed
    To murder her I married.
    And put my eyeballs in thy vaulty brows,
    But I must also feel it as a man.
    Thrust in between the paction of these kingdoms,
    Ingross'd by swift impress. In Caesar's fleet
  MACBETH. My dearest love,
    My fear hath catch'd your fondness. Now I see
  GUIDERIUS. Where's my brother?
    Men fear'd the French would prove perfidious,
    You were best call it 'daughter-beamed eyes.'
    apprehensive, quick, forgetive, full of nimble, fiery, and
    I thought King Henry had resembled thee
  The hand that writ it, for I love you so,
  LEONTES. How does the boy?

  KING RICHARD. O Ratcliff, I fear, I fear.
    And strew'd repentant ashes on his head.
    He is sure possess'd, madam.
ACT III. PROLOGUE.
  MIRANDA. There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple.
OFFICER. Good now, hold thy tongue.
  Con. Yes, it is apparel.
    That is my bed too, lads, and there I'll lie.
    Like a Colossus, and we petty men
    thunderbolt.  [Thunder]  Alas, the storm is come again! My
  A wolf, nay worse, a fellow all in buff;
    That will not be deep-search'd with saucy looks;
  Pol. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
    And blind oblivion swallow'd cities up,
    But think upon my grief, a lady's grief,
    Thought is free.
    Letters to Richmond, you shall answer it.
    And see what death is doing.
    As most abated captives to some nation
    When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple  
    Which, but for him that had your husband's ring,


  FERDINAND. Ay, with a heart as willing
    For better times to come. Friar, advise him;
    To live in prayer and contemplation,
    King, father, royal Dane. O, answer me?
  Cap. Despis'd, distressed, hated, martyr'd, kill'd!
  BELARIUS. My boys,
    Of all our fortunes; but if we haply scape-
    Our courtiers say all's savage but at court.
    The roses in thy lips and cheeks shall fade
      revenged,
    I will acquaint my daughter withal, that she may be the better


  Nurse. A man, young lady! lady, such a man
          Enter HYMEN, ROSALIND, and CELIA. Still MUSIC
                                     [ALONSO sleeps. Exit ARIEL]
    But let the laws of Rome determine all;
    God put it in thy mind to take it hence,
    Our sighs and they shall lodge the summer corn
    for he's in the third degree of drink, he's drown'd; go look
  Nurse. Have you got leave to go to shrift to-day?
    If she have time to breathe, be well assur'd  
  LADY MACDUFF. What, with worms and flies?  

    blackberry. They set me up, in policy, that mongrel cur, Ajax,

    Must get a father, call'd suppos'd Vincentio;
     I prithee put them off.
    Hark in thine ear.
              Sweet Imogen?  
    And wherefore should they, since that I myself
    Who says it was, he lies; I say 'twas not.                 Exeunt
    Grow in the veins of actions highest rear'd,
  OLIVIA. Speak to me; I shall answer for her. Your will?
  FERDINAND. There be some sports are painful, and their
    When Goths were Goths and Tamora was queen-

London. The palace
  MRS. FORD. Why, does he talk of him?
     Yet have I left a daughter.
    That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
    Which should sustain the bound and high curvet

               Fond done, done fond,
    That hold their honors in a wary distance,
    A most dear husband. Now, I do love her too,
    How now, Shylock? What news among the merchants?
    you are past service; and for your part, Bullcalf, grow you come

  GAUNT. Call it a travel that thou tak'st for pleasure.
  KATHERINE. Pardonnez-moi, I cannot tell vat is like me.
    excellent musician, and her hair shall be of what colour it
    To do in slander. And to behold his sway,
                             Enter DUKE
    hence the child?
    says he that takes upon him not to conceive. The answer is as
  GREMIO. Adieu, good neighbour.                   Exit BAPTISTA
     When grief hath mates, and bearing fellowship.
    Which sometime they have us'd with fearful flight-
          And for one blast of thy minikin mouth
  With him his bondman all as mad as he,
  ENOBARBUS. I'll yet follow

    Himself best knows; but strangely-visited people,
  Pedro. We have some haste, Leonato.
  Rom. Nay, good goose, bite not!
  Therefore my verse to constancy confined,
    Be wisely definite; nor i' th' appetite;
    shows to man the tailors of the earth; comforting therein that
    Hark! hark! The Dauphin's drum, a warning bell,
  
    But are you not ashamed? Nay, are you not,
    He wishes earnestly you never may.                      Exit
  AENEAS. Sir, pardon; 'tis for Agamemnon's ears.
    Bright Phoebus in his strength- a malady
    master; so much my office.
AEGEON. O, had the gods done so, I had not now
    you prove a mutineer-the next tree! The poor monster's
  IAGO. You are in the right. Good night, lieutenant, I must to the
    more, which will shame you to give him again.
                                           who goes to the CARDINAL]
    Led by a delicate and tender prince,
    Shall feel this day as sharp to them as thorn.
  Lear. Hast thou given all to thy two daughters, and art thou come
    If I may have your daughter to my wife,
  CALIBAN. Let it alone, thou fool; it is but trash.
  MENENIUS. Lo, citizens, he says he is content.
  ANNE. Foul devil, for God's sake, hence and trouble us not;
  POSTHUMUS. Since when I have been debtor to you for courtesies,
    I am not worthy yet to wear. I shall, assuredly.
    As is the sucking lamb or harmless dove:
    Ambitiously for rule and empery,
    Deny their office; only you do lack  
  CAESAR. What say'st thou to me now? Speak once again.
    Rather, lost more. And by this hand I swear,
    As day does to your eye.
    Come home with me to supper; I will lay
    Fashion'd to Beatrice.
    Why ev'n what fashion thou best likes, Lucetta.
    Who hath abandoned her holy groves
    Thou mak'st thy knife keen; but no metal can,
  CURTIS. This 'tis to feel a tale, not to hear a tale.
    Two stars keep not their motion in one sphere,

    If ever- as that ever may be near-
    To feast upon whole thousands of the French.
  Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow:
    By vain though apt affection.
  POMPEY. To you all three,
    More than my all is nothing, nor my prayers
  PROTEUS. Sweet lady, let me rake it from the earth.
    And many miles, the Princess bids you tell
    And try if they can gain your liberty.
    Write thou, good niece, and here display at last
    An hour by his dial. O noble fool!  

    Which was your shame, by this unholy braggart,
    if you can carry her your desires towards her.
  BRUTUS. Caesar, 'tis strucken eight.

  BASSANIO. For the which, as I told you, Antonio shall be bound.
  MUTIUS. My lord, you pass not here.
    up.                                           [ADAM retires]
    crutches till he had one.
  ANTONY. That which is now a horse, even with a thought
  BRUTUS. He's a lamb indeed, that baes like a bear.
    As yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere.
    Yet would you say ye were beaten out of door;
Flourish. Enter BOLINGBROKE, the DUKE OF YORK, With other LORDS
    Of the grave wearers. O, the sacrifice!
    Whereof the world takes note. Come, come, disclose
    To wrong him with thy importunacy?

  KING. Construe my speeches better, if you may.

    Or shall we sparingly show you far of
    Upon the like devotion as yourselves,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
     Of this remove.
  DUCHESS. O happy vantage of a kneeling knee!
    Of the dreamer Merlin and his prophecies,
  GLOUCESTER. Good day, my lord. What, at your book so hard?
  DUKE. 'Tis well borne up.
    Were but his picture left amongst you here,
    A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
    Have been deceived; for they swore you did.

    nose, of the wicked?
    Or he that slew her brothers and her uncles?
    I'll live by Nym and Nym shall live by me.

    told him on't, but I could ne'er get him from't.
    anon; follow me, gentlemen.                             Exit
    Which God's dew quench! Therefore I say again,
  BIANCA. God give him joy!
    Thou run'st before me, shifting every place,
  DUKE. Say it, Othello.
    O, negligent and heedless discipline!
    For this one night; which, part of it, I'll waste
    Together have one dust, yet reverence-
    but as a common man; witness the night, your garments, your
    worn in my cap than to wait at my heels. I was never mann'd with
    Always excepted my dear Claudio.
    Shall follow in your conduct speedily.
    Sir Thomas Grey, knight, of Northumberland,
    We doubt not of a fair and lucky war,
    Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
  But I forbid thee one most heinous crime,
    Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress
    And men ne'er spend their fury on a child.
    I'll go and chat with Paris. Hie, make haste,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Whom after under the confession's seal
  LADY MACBETH. These deeds must not be thought
    And run a tilt at death within a chair?
    Mark, silent king, the moral of this sport-
  CROMWELL. How does your Grace?
  VALENTINE. No, madam; so it stead you, I will write,
    That I might rail at him to ease my mind!
Exit.
    To-night we'll wander through the streets and note
    The mind I sway by and the heart I bear
  OTHELLO.                               Pray, chuck, come hither.
    This tiger-footed rage, when it shall find
  EVANS. This is well; he has made us his vlouting-stog. I
  KING. Ha! Canterbury?
  ANTONY. 'Tis so. And the tears of it are wet.
  LADY PERCY. If they get ground and vantage of the King,
  POINS. Why, this is a certificate.
    May fall to match you with her country forms,

  PUCELLE. Look on thy country, look on fertile France,  
    But cruel are the times when we are traitors
    I have seduc'd a headstrong Kentishman,
  ANGELO. Be you content, fair maid.
  YORK. And therefore is he idle?
  Lear. I remember thine eyes well enough. Dost thou squiny at me?
  Jul. Where is my mother? Why, she is within.
    I thought your marriage fit; else imputation,
  SCROOP. That's mercy, but too much security.
    So by his father lost; and this, I take it,
    In whose comparison all whites are ink
    My dearest lord- blest to be most accurst,
  DOCTOR. Ay, sir, there are a crew of wretched souls
  BOTTOM. That will ask some tears in the true performing of it. If I
    But this effusion of such manly drops,
    To sing them too. When you do dance, I wish you
  KATHERINE. Je te prie, m'enseignez; il faut que j'apprenne a
    into England.
    Our dukedom till God please to send the rest.
    Must pity drop upon her. Verily,
    Should say myself offended, and with you
     Topple down headlong.
    On her dead mistress. Tremblingly she stood,
  KING HENRY. An if he may, then am I lawful King;
  MENENIUS. Pray now, your news?
    Matchless Navarre; the plea of no less weight
    your Isbels o' th' court. The brains of my Cupid's knock'd out;
    coals. They would have me as familiar with men's pockets as their
  STEPHANO. Ay, on mine honour.
    I like it better than dangerous honour.  

    Will serve the turn.

  FALSTAFF. A good shallow young fellow. 'A would have made a good
  BASSANIO. Lorenzo and Salerio, welcome hither,
     She and the Duke her husband!
    And with that odds he weighs King Richard down.
SUFFOLK, and SALISBURY, with guard, to banish the DUCHESS. Enter, guarded,
    bread-chipper, and I know not what!
    How shall I feast him? What bestow of him?
    As fox to lamb, or wolf to heifer's calf,
    Was the first man that leapt; cried 'Hell is empty,
    And wear his colours like a tumbler's hoop!  
    Boil thou first i' the charmed pot.
Enter Macbeth.
                As the Venus of the sky.
  ENOBARBUS. Antony only, that would make his will
  DUKE. Ay, but the doors be lock'd and keys kept safe,
                      Enter a MESSENGER
    somebody in this city under my countenance.

  GONZALO. Methinks our garments are now as fresh as when
                     GLOUCESTER and EXETER
  ORLEANS. O Seigneur! le jour est perdu, tout est perdu!

    the shoe speak a word for weeping; now should I kiss my father;
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS, and DROMIO OF EPHESUS, from the COURTEZAN'S
    And now, sweet Emperor, be blithe again,
  Thought characters and words merely but art,
  BERTRAM. My high-repented blames,
    Or senseless speaking, or a speaking such  
    As holy oil, Edward Confessor's crown,
    'Hundred Merry Tales.' Well, this was Signior Benedick that said
    follow.
    And some donation freely to estate
     Diminish'd to her cock; her cock, a buoy
  ENOBARBUS. Never! He will not.
    Much comfort in't; says 'My poor prisoner,
  TOUCHSTONE. Well, praised be the gods for thy foulness;
    feather. I have of late- but wherefore I know not- lost all my
    Your loving motion toward the common body,
                              [They all bustle about CORIOLANUS]
  MRS. FORD. I warrant. What, Robin, I say!
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Never presented!- O, a root! Dear thanks!-
                     46  
  ORLANDO,  "   "  "    "     "  "

  LUCENTIO. I may and will, if she be so contented.
    But that the good mind of Camillo tardied
    Peasant, unless thou give me crowns, brave crowns;
    If want it be not that she is not he.
    And say'st it is not fit.
  CINNA. Truly, my name is Cinna.

     Should loosen him and me.
  CELIA. Alas, poor shepherd!
    Poor gentlewoman, my master wrongs her much.
    faith and allegiance of true subject, didst counsel and aid them,

  A dateless lively heat still to endure,
    I'll get me one of such another length.  
    Teach me to be your queen and you my subjects.
    [To MARCIUS]  Follow Cominius; we must follow you;
    A confidence sans bound. He being thus lorded,
    And on the justice of my flying hence
    Why followed not, when she said 'Tybalt's dead,'

  ISABELLA. O fie, fie, fie!
  This chain, which now you wear so openly.
    Applaud the name of Henry with your leader.
     brutish! Go, sirrah, seek him. I'll apprehend him. Abominable
    and say, after to-morrow, 'This is my glove,' by this hand I will
      sweat;
Scene II.
    'By water shall he die and take his end.'
    And what a pitch she flew above the rest!
    To th' rest, and I 'mongst lords be thought a fool.
     place will be fruitfully offer'd. There is nothing done, if he  
     Ay, and laying autumn's dust.
    And, to that dauntless temper of his mind,
    Methinks you prescribe to yourself very preposterously.
    casement.
    Were I the ghost that walk'd, I'd bid you mark
    I would assay, proud queen, to make thee blush.

    Till Richard wear the garland of the realm.
    I beg for justice, which thou, Prince, must give.
    Let our drums strike.                                 Exeunt
    In all the rest show'd a most noble patience.
    Who, certain of his fate, loves not his wronger;
    As howling after music.
    Yet witness what you hear we did intend.
    Here come the lords.
    And give our vineyards to a barbarous people.
    Fills the wide vessel of the universe.
    sluttishness may come hereafter. But be it as it may be, I will
    That you resolv'd t' effect.
    If it be so, out with it boldly, man;
    and now newly perform'd by that rare Italian master, Julio

<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM

  LUCIO. A very superficial, ignorant, unweighing fellow.

    If the winds rage, doth not the sea wax mad,
    Loves woman for; besides that hook of wiving,
    An if the shepherd be awhile away.
    him on with a fine-baited delay, till he hath pawn'd his

    On the enchafed flood.  
    For thy sweet mistress' sake, because thou lov'st her.
    What duty they do owe their lords and husbands.
    Arms, take your last embrace! and, lips, O you
  Beat. Will you go hear this news, signior?
    And haste is needful in this desp'rate case.
AUMERLE, and soldiers
  LUCIO. Nay, not, as one would say, healthy; but so sound as things
  AGUECHEEK. Good, i' faith! Come, begin.           [Catch sung]
    to your worship. Mistress Page hath her hearty commendations
  FIRST SENATOR. Amen, amen!
    then.
    A couch for luxury and damned incest.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  SATURNINUS. Why, lords, what wrongs are these! Was ever seen
    Mistress Ford. Now shall I sin in my wish; I would thy
  CLIFFORD. Ay, and old York, and yet not satisfied.
  ANTONIO. Let me speak a little. This youth that you see here  
                               SCENE 5.
    And these the showers to bring it on. Be cheerful.
    a rheum in mine eyes too, and such an ache in my bones that
    Like softest music to attending ears!
  Friar. So smile the heavens upon this holy act
  DUCHESS. Pleads he in earnest? Look upon his face;
  CRESSIDA. O all you gods! O pretty, pretty pledge!
    Where should We have our thanks?
  Clown. 'A was the first that ever bore arms.

  Jul. By-and-by I come.-
ACT II. SCENE 1.
  MENENIUS. A noble wish.
    And everything lies level to our wish.
  What unapproved witness dost thou bear!
    Now therefore be it known to noble Lewis
    Ere he express himself or move the people
    neighbour!
    I see things too, although you judge I wink.
    And gentlewomen wear such caps as these.
    Lord Stafford's death.
    The tackle of my heart is crack'd and burnt,
    And he that is so yoked by a fool,

  ARRAGON. What's here? The portrait of a blinking idiot
  Against that time do I ensconce me here
  FIRST VARRO'S SERVANT. My lord-
  I have no precious time at all to spend;

  Osw. Help, ho! murther! murther!
    For in my way it lies. Stars, hide your fires;
  BARDOLPH. Good Lieutenant, good Corporal, offer nothing here.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Now I am alone.  
    Is quite forgot. He was a queen's son, boys;
    that base minnow of thy mirth,'
    Strong fixed is the house of Lancaster
    Come, now towards Chertsey with your holy load,
  CHORUS
  BRUTUS. People and senators, be not affrighted,
  MACBETH. Whate'er thou art, for thy good caution, thanks;
    [To RICHMOND]  Thou quiet soul, sleep thou a quiet sleep;
                                         Exeunt DUKE and PROVOST  
  FLAVIUS. [Aside] I scarce know how.
  KING HENRY. If, Duke of Burgundy, you would the peace
    As witting I no other comfort have.  
    Than you should stoop unto a Frenchman's mercy.
  EARL RIVERS, brother to King Edward's Queen
  She is too big, I hope, for me to compass.
  CASSIO. 'Fore God, an excellent song.  
    Where lies your text?
    They could not find a heart within the beast.
     By his authority I will proclaim it
    Till like a boy you see him cringe his face,
    The manner of your bearing towards him, with
    O my sweet master! O you memory
  Against thy reasons making no defence.
    Or, by the affection that now guides me most,
  DUKE OF SUFFOLK               EARL OF SURREY
  PRIAM. Farewell. The gods with safety stand about thee!  
     Fortune, good night; smile once more, turn thy wheel.
    'Tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus:

  Glou. Canst thou blame him?
    The truth of your own seeming, that you may-
    Acquaint the Queen of your most noble offer
    with estimation.
  SHYLOCK. There I have another bad match: a bankrupt, a prodigal,
  LORD. What's here? One dead, or drunk?
    And with the brands fire the traitors' houses.
    Is with a kind of colic pinch'd and vex'd
  HELENA. That you may well perceive I have not wrong'd you!
    In an odd angle of the isle, and sitting,
    My tongue hath but a heavier tale to say.
    And, look you, here's your letter. This it says:
    And with a puissant and a mighty power
    That nothing-gift of differing multitudes,
    My advocation is not now in tune;
    roses;
                Re-enter WHITMORE with SUFFOLK'S body
  A Porter
         And maidens bleach their summer smocks;
  MOTH. No, sir; that were fast, and loose. Thou shalt to prison.
    Hath got the voice in hell for excellence;
    Methinks I see him now-
    I shall have share in this most happy wreck.

  Beat. What should I do with him? dress him in my apparel and make
  IACHIMO. [Aside] All of her that is out of door most rich!
    With conscience wide as hell, mowing like grass
    And to imperial Love, that god most high,
    [Aside]  Hubert, what news with you?
    to fill it with my tears; if the wind were down, I could drive
     The trumpet sounds. Enter Worcester [and Vernon].
    To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
    Then, in despite of brooded watchful day,
    provided I have your commendation for my more free entertainment.
    As it on earth hath been thy servant still.
    vengeance on 't! There 'tis. Now, sir, this staff is my sister,
    That you should be new-christ'ned in the Tower.
    feed my revenge. He hath disgrac'd me and hind'red me half a
    Inspire me, that I may this treason find!
  OTHELLO.                That's not so good now.
     Take thou this note [gives a paper]. Go follow them to prison.
  EVANS. If there be any pody in the house, and in the
    Who's that at door? Good uncle, go and see.
    To him that is most true. To Milford go,
    And Juliet bleeding, warm, and newly dead,
  VALENTINE. Last night she enjoin'd me to write some lines to one  

              Two of both kinds makes up four.
    had said so.
  HASTINGS. So prosper I, as I swear perfect love!
    To try the fair adventure of to-morrow.                    Exeunt
    hunts, but one that fills up the cry. My money is almost spent; I
    You sent me deputy for Ireland;
    For a fair victory.
Scene IV.
    Some little time; so by your companies
    thou naughty varlet, tell me where hast thou been this month?
         Re-enter ARIEL invisible, playing ad singing;

    revenge enough. Who can speak broader than he that has no house
    abides.
  QUICKLY. Marry, she hath receiv'd your letter; for the
ACT I. SCENE I.
    What dowry shall I have with her to wife?
    I follow'd that I blush to look upon.
    'No man must know.' What follows? The numbers alter'd!
   Six thousand and two hundred good esquires;
  YORK. I do beseech your Majesty impute his words
    And go in peace, Humphrey, no less belov'd
                        Enter PISANIO
    No longer for my flatterer; he is drown'd
     If that the heavens do not their visible spirits
                  And go the fools among.

    From forth the fatal loins of these two foes

    He shall in strangeness stand no farther off
  CASSIUS. This it is:
    I tell thee, Licio, this is wonderful.
    to be required, look you, I will be so bold as to tell you I know
  THIRD CITIZEN. Doth the news hold of good King Edward's
                     79
    Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it,

    Then to the wood will he to-morrow night
  FIRST MURTHERER. But who did bid thee join with us?
  Mar. Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
    Do you perceive in all this noble company
                 It is engend'red in the eyes,
    That I profess myself in banqueting
    Are not thine own so proper as to waste
    like a parrot.
    I tell you, lords, you do but plot your deaths
  POLIXENES. Masterly done!
    away the performance. Therefore much drink may be said to be an
    How chance thou art not with the Prince thy brother?
  OTHELLO. Mistress!
    I had rather crack my sinews, break my back,
  OLIVER. Where will the old Duke live?
    And may enjoy such quiet walks as these?
  A Norwegian Captain.

    As will revenge these bitter woes of ours.
  PROVOST. Lest I might be too rash;
    And, acting this in an obedient hope,
  MESSENGER. Stay, my Lord Talbot; for my lady craves
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What is she?
  TRINCULO. Wilt come? I'll follow, Stephano.             Exeunt
    Nose of Turk and Tartar's lips,
    hath a thousand of these letters, writ with blank space for
  AJAX. Were I the general, thou shouldst have my office
    To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
    And I could laugh; I am light and heavy. Welcome!

  PANDARUS. Troilus! Why, he esteems her no more than I esteem an
  OLIVIA. Tell him he shall not speak with me.
    gift is in devising impossible slanders. None but libertines
    Betwixt my love and your high majesty.
    grass.  
  And peace proclaims olives of endless age.
  ISABELLA. I'll see what I can do.
Enter CORIOLANUS, AUFIDIUS, and others
    Thou know'st already.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    nurse and bid her still it.
  MENENIUS. Has he din'd, canst thou tell? For I would not speak with
            Wedding is great Juno's crown;
  Hot. All studies here I solemnly defy
    Is his complexion; and faster than his tongue
    Throw down, my son, the Duke of Norfolk's gage.
    Be gone; I will not hear thy vain excuse,

    From the rude sea's enrag'd and foamy mouth
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  As after sunset fadeth in the west,
  GRATIANO. Beg that thou mayst have leave to hang thyself;

    Nay, put out all your hands. Not one word more!
  KATHARINE. It is not you I call for.  
  STEPHANO. I should have been a sore one, then.
  DUKE. I would thou hadst done so by Claudio.
  FOOL. A fool in good clothes, and something like thee. 'Tis a
  WARWICK. I love no colours; and, without all colour  
    Ah, thou, the model where old Troy did stand;
    of them too that die against their wills; so should I, if I were
  Unlooked for joy in that I honour most;
     Do comfort, and not burn. 'Tis not in thee
       Enter Brabantio, Othello, Iago, Roderigo, and Officers.
                            and JULIET
         Enter the EARLS OF SOMERSET, SUFFOLK, and WARWICK;

    to ask you if gold will corrupt him to revolt.
  ORLEANS. It is now two o'clock; but let me see- by ten
    my coffers ransack'd, my reputation gnawn at; and I shall
    On objects, arts, and imitations,
  PRINCE JOHN. The King hath call'd his parliament, my lord.
     To boot, and boot!
SCENE III.
  MESSALA. Octavius, then take him to follow thee
    Petitioners for blood thou ne'er put'st back.
    Between these swelling wrong-incensed peers.
    Would I were fairly out on't!
  AUDREY. I am not a slut, though I thank the gods I am foul.
    Toward thee forgetfulness too general, gross;
  MENENIUS. I would they were in Tiber.  
    If grace had bless'd thee with a fairer life.


    You whoreson villain! will you let it fall?    [Strikes him]
SCENE IV.
  SECOND WATCH. What cause, do you think, I have to swoon?
    Messaline whom I know you have heard of. He left behind him
  Thy looks with me, thy heart in other place.
    three and fifty upon poor old Jack, then am I no two-legg'd
    To make him an example. All hope is gone,
    That such a hideous trumpet calls to parley
  FIRST LORD. Let's make no stay.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Well, sir, learn to jest in good time;
  PISTOL. O braggart vile and damned furious wight!
    marvellous poor.
  Prince. Stand close.                        [They step aside.]
    So the revenge alone pursu'd me! Polydore,
    As if we should forget we had no hands,
    Sits safe and still without him.
     daughters, and did the third a blessing against his will. If
                    Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with LORDS
    Be not denied access, stand at her doors,
    Is not this just? For I shall sutler be
    That walk'd about me every minute-while;

    When every one will give the time of day,
  FLORIZEL. Do, and be witness to't.
  LEWIS. There end thy brave, and turn thy face in peace;
    other in music and mathematics. His name is Cambio. Pray accept

ADRIANA. Is't good to soothe him in these contraries?
    Currents that spring from one most gracious head,
  POSTHUMUS. [Coming forward] Ay, so thou dost,
    The Duke of Buckingham came from his trial.
    As friendly as you were.
    And yet, to say the truth, reason and love keep little company
    shall be said so again, while Stephano breathes at
  AGAMEMNON. Let Ajax go to him.
    Iwis it is not halfway to her heart;

    All scatt'red in the bottom of the sea;

    This tongue hath parley'd unto foreign kings
    his wife seems to me well-favour'd. I will use her as the
  THIRD STRANGER. Religion groans at it.
    To a most hideous object. Thence it came
  O fearful meditation, where alack,
  Leon. The sight whereof I think you had from me,
  GONZALO. No, I warrant you; I will not adventure my
    For me and my possessions she esteems not.
    That, for the health and physic of our right,
    That need to be reviv'd and breath'd in me?
  OTHELLO. Is't lost? is't gone? speak, is it out o' the way?
    thou shouldst scape.  
    With furbish'd arms and new supplies of men,
    Above their functions and their offices.
    Envelop you, good Provost! Who call'd here of late?
    Michaelmas?
    Who comes here? my doe?


    And of his friends there, it is lots to blanks
    What news, what news, in this our tott'ring state?
    it goes hard- one that I brought up of a puppy; one that I sav'd
    And sure those men are happy that shall have 'em.  
  Either send the chain or send by me some token.
    But do not speak to me. Lead me to my chamber.        Exeunt
    To do a thing where I the issue doubted,
    And yonder shines Aurora's harbinger,
     If all could so become it.
  SHYLOCK. Nay, that's true; that's very true. Go, Tubal, fee me an
  Unseen, inquisitive, confounds himself.
  BRUTUS. I pray you, sirs, lie in my tent and sleep;
    Hath power enough to serve our turn. But who comes here?
  Give warning to the world that I am fled
    Let there be covenants drawn between's. My mistress exceeds in
    a city feast of it, to let the meat cool ere we can agree upon
    At gaming, swearing, or about some act
    The value of her own. 'Twere a concealment
  FANG. It is ent'red.
  KING. But wherefore did he take away the crown?
  CLOWN. I will catechize the world for him; that is, make questions
    Alas, a kind of godly jealousy,
    Of my wive's brother, then his cheek look'd pale,
    For thee to slaughter. For my daughters, Richard,
  Kent. His countenance likes me not.
  PYRAMUS. Sweet Moon, I thank thee for thy sunny beams;  
  SILVIUS. Wherever sorrow is, relief would be.
    My lord, I'll tell my lady you will come.
  Ham. Ay, lady, it was my word.
    To-night at Heme's oak, just 'twixt twelve and one,
    As proofs of holy writ; this may do something.
  VALENTINE. Come, come, a hand from either.
    Therefore with frank and with uncurbed plainness

    In such a time nothing becoming you
    Of the great Count himself, she is too mean
  APEMANTUS. Traffic confound thee, if the gods will not!
THE TAMING OF THE SHREW
    Upon whose property and most dear life
    For I do love her most unfeignedly.
    Where virtue is, these are more virtuous.

    Employ thee, then, sweet virgin, for our good.

    But keep it till you woo another wife,
    Under my burden groan'd; which rais'd in me
    And be it moon, or sun, or what you please;
    Stol'n by my daughter! Justice! Find the girl;
    This day shall gentle his condition;
    The play may pass, if they be still and willing,
    go you through the town to Frogmore.
    Of any point in't shall not only be
    That what you speak is in your conscience wash'd
  FALSTAFF. His Grace says that which his flesh rebels against.
    That we adjourn this court till further day;
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    whole township.
    an injury, I never found man that knew how to love himself. Ere I
  ISABELLA. I thank you for this comfort. Fare you well, good father.
    And for the love he beareth to your daughter,
    To bring again these foolish runaways.                Exeunt
    brother the bastard is fled from Messina. You have among you

    I was your mother much upon these years
    From my Redeemer to redeem me hence;
    Which to this hour bewail the injury,
  KING. And once more in mine arms I bid him welcome,
    Whose icy current and compulsive course  
    To crop at once a too long withered flower.
    The safety and health of this whole state,
    But, riddle-like, lives sweetly where she dies!
  THIRD MESSENGER. O no, he lives, but is took prisoner,
    Even daughter, welcome in no less degree.
    Came in and satisfied him.
  SICILIUS. Why did you suffer Iachimo,
  MENENIUS. Take my cap, Jupiter, and I thank thee. Hoo!
  VAUGHAN. You live that shall cry woe for this hereafter.
    Slow in pursuit, but match'd in mouth like bells,
    So thou destroy Rapine and Murder there.
    And majesty might never yet endure
                 Re-enter GENTLEMAN with the GAOLER
  LAUNCE. Sir, call me what thou dar'st.
    If the quick fire of youth light not your mind,
    that thou art like to be my kinsman, live unbruis'd, and love my
    civil, godly company, for this trick. If I be drunk, I'll be
Trumpets, sennet, and cornets. Enter two VERGERS, with short silver wands;
  MRS. FORD. Marry, as I told you before, John and Robert, be
  BRUTUS. I do not like this news.
  BERTRAM. Yes, my good lord;  
  ELBOW. Come your ways, sir; come.
    I should your lordship.
    There the grown serpent lies; the worm that's fled  
                         Flourish. Exeunt all but YORK, WARWICK,
    Not truly speaks; who speaks not truly, lies.
    Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
    Teach thy necessity to reason thus:
                      Enter Lear and Gloucester
  QUICKLY. Peace be with you, sir.                          Exit
   And generally to the crown and seat of France,
    and a copatain hat! O, I am undone! I am undone! While I play the
    In half an hour she 'promis'd to return.
    And I do fear them.
    Or if thou hast not broke from company
  MALCOLM. I thank you, Doctor.                     Exit Doctor.
    That it yields nought but shame and bitterness.
  Sir Richard Vernon.
    not be alter'd: Claudio must die to-morrow. Let him be furnish'd
    And your fair show shall suck away their souls,
    If sanctimony be the god's delight,
    the devil himself will have no shepherds; I cannot see else how
  Sets you most rich in youth before my sight,
  BASSANIO. Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing, more than
    a knight,
  

    Nor my bad life reft me so much of friends,
  SERVANT. I'll fetch him presently.                       Exit.
SCENE III.
    And look you lay it in the praetor's chair,
  When that mine eye is famished for a look,
    Tyrannical power. If he evade us there,
    Rests by you only to be qualified.
    thou shouldst have heard in how miry a place, how she was

    Is to mistake again; though indirect,
    How far I am from the desire of this.
    Are register'd where every day I turn
                          Enter GRATIANO
  Capt. I cannot draw a cart, nor eat dried oats;
  TITUS. Give signs, sweet girl, for here are none but friends,
    But since the cuckoo builds not for himself,
    And follow me with speed. I'll to the King;
  Perchance you will not bear them patiently.
    Nothing so kind, but something pitiful!
    Only, this one: Lord Angelo is precise;
     Edmund.]- [To Edmund]. Hold, sir.
    Yet have I gold flies from another coast-
  CLARENCE. [Taking the red rose from his hat and throwing
  And in this change is my invention spent,
  GRIFFITH. None, madam.
    Unless good counsel may the cause remove.  
    world keeps the road-way better than thine. Every man would think
    fellow.
  JESSICA. And what hope is that, I pray thee?
    By some that know not why he is away,
    I yield thee up my life.
  Suspect I may, yet not directly tell,


    For now we sit to chat as well as eat.            [They sit]
    That scarce some two days since were worth a noble.
    Sweet lady, entertain him for your servant.

    Be with my hopes abroad. I should be still  

    And teaches me to kill or hang myself.
  DUNCAN. What bloody man is that? He can report,
    Such friends as time in Padua shall beget.
    For the blood-bolter'd Banquo smiles upon me,  
  Lear. Nothing?

    To see a goodlier man.
  ROSALIND. Come, woo me, woo me; for now I am in a holiday humour,
    enough: swore little, dic'd not above seven times a week, went to
    With gentle conference, soft and affable.
    Or feed on nourishing dishes, or keep you warm,
    To plainer ground.      Exit LYSANDER as following the voice  
  Mess. News, madam.
  Duty so great, which wit so poor as mine
    That I shall make this Northern youth exchange
    Thou shalt have none, Rousillon, none in France
  LADY GREY. The fruits of love I mean, my loving liege.
  Glend. I say the earth did shake when I was born.
    When Hector's grandsire suck'd. He is old now;
  Laer. A touch, a touch; I do confess't.
        them. THey all run away, and Falstaff, after a blow or
  But ere they came-O, let me say no more!
  HASTINGS. And Hastings as he favours Edward's cause!
  PRINCE JOHN. Health, peace, and happiness, to my royal father!
    Barren winter, with his wrathful nipping cold;
    Gan in your duller Britain operate  
    A minister of her will; and it is great
    Which, traitor, thou wouldst have me answer to.
    And may not be performed by thyself,
  IAGO. My noble lord-

  RODERIGO. I will do this, if I can bring it to any opportunity.
    That cannot say as much. This is a subtle whore,
  MARCADE. Even so; my tale is told.
    Set down our host. My partner in this action,
  THIRD LORD. I'll tell you more anon. Here's a noble feast toward.  
    Thing's have been strangely borne. The gracious Duncan
  CLOWN. [Sings] She loves another- Who calls, ha?
    he regards not; his disgrace is to be called boy, but his glory
    Lesser his person than an ill report;
  MACBETH. Thou'lt be afraid to hear it.
    Albeit I will confess thy father's wealth
           From another one?
  AJAX. You whoreson cur!                               [Strikes him]  
    That man may question? You seem to understand me,
  LEONTES. O peace, Paulina!

    Therefore take with thee my most grievous curse,
  QUICKLY. And how does good Master Fenton? Pray you, a
                                             [Touching her eyes]
    Thou and thy faction shall repent this rape.
    Which I have done, because unworthily
    Which is the hot condition of their blood-
    Wherein my letters, praying on his side,
     To be my child Cordelia.
    Would choose him Pope, and carry him to Rome,
    I know she is come to pray for your foul sin.
  CLEOPATRA. Have you done yet?
  OTHELLO. What would you with her, sir?
    might have cudgell'd thee out of thy single life, to make thee a
    of your ears; and I care not if I do become your physician.
SCENE 2
  CLOWN. [Singing]
  NORTHUMBERLAND. What was his reason?
    But being watch'd that it may still go right!
    And these grey locks, the pursuivants of death,
  RODERIGO. By heaven, I rather would have been his hangman.
     And from th' extremest upward of thy head
    His pardon for return.
  BOLINGBROKE. What says his Majesty?
  SECOND COMMONER. Nay, I beseech you, sir, be not out with me; yet,
    Your noble mother; and as I hear, my lord,
  TRANIO. What countryman, I pray?
    Whose dismal tune bereft my vital pow'rs;
    may be matter in it.                                    Exit
    The foe is merciless and will not pity;
    To check their folly, passion's solemn tears.
  HELENA. My duty then shall pay me for my pains.
  CLEOPATRA. Lord of lords!
    And so his knell is knoll'd.
    Who worship dirty gods.
    Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!
    Which hath our several honours all engag'd
  KING HENRY. Now, herald, are the dead numb'red?  
    As much I wish all good befortune you.
    He knows himself my bed he hath defil'd;
    And it is still itself.
    place appointed. I'll be judgment by mine host of the
  BUCKINGHAM. Sir,
    I have seen myself, and serv'd against, the French,
    The large Achilles, on his press'd bed lolling,
    in his belly: hold, there is twelve pence for you; and I pray you
  FIRST PETITIONER. My masters, let's stand close; my Lord Protector
    Steeples and mossgrown towers. At your birth
    According to the which thou shalt discourse
      Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
    And on the winking of authority
    Ne'er feels retiring ebb, but keeps due on
    Of this most grievous murder!  
  Bene. [aside] I should think this a gull but that the white-bearded
  IAGO. Her honor is an essence that's not seen;
    Come, let's away.                                     Exeunt
    Threw dust and rubbish on King Richard's head.
    Her shall you hear disproved to her eyes,
    Than he appears by speech; this is unwonted
  Jul. At what o'clock to-morrow
A hall in Leonato's house.
  JAQUES. But, for the seventh cause: how did you find the quarrel on

     of toasted cheese will do't. There's my gauntlet; I'll prove it
    He speaks with such a proud commanding spirit.
  Jul. It may be so, for it is not mine own.
  KING HENRY. Fair Katherine, and most fair,
  Lear. And my poor fool is hang'd! No, no, no life!
  SCROOP. So did you me, my liege.
    Troyan drab, and uses the traitor Calchas' tent. I'll after.

    I doubt some danger does approach you nearly.
  BOTTOM. I see their knavery: this is to make an ass of me; to
    He hath a heavenly gift of prophecy,  
  ANTONY. Let her know't.
    It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
    With chaces. And we understand him well,
    Sweet ornament that decks a thing divine!

    No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
  ACHILLES. Come here about me, you my Myrmidons;
    Not one accompanying his declining foot.
    Coram.

     Beat at this gate that let thy folly in  [Strikes his head.]
  LEWIS. I muse your Majesty doth seem so cold,
  GLOUCESTER. Why, madam, have I off'red love for this,
    And buried one and twenty valiant sons,
    Forswear Bianca and her love for ever.
    And ten to one is no impeach of valour.
    A man at least, for less I should not be;
    And seem a saint when most I play the devil.
    Hark, countrymen! Either renew the fight  
    That gnaws the bowels of the commonwealth.
  Leon. No, nor I neither; but most wonderful that she should so dote

    Bardolph, give the soldiers coats.
    The commons haply rise to save his life;

    Do not deny. Beshrew his soul for me!
    Misguide thy opposers' swords! Bold gentleman,
    so indeed; but much of the father's substance!
    exercises as may become a gentleman, or give me the poor
    And without trial fell; God's peace be with him!  
    Romeo, I come! this do I drink to thee.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I did not see you since you sent me hence,

    Be you not troubled with the time, which drives  
  KATHARINE. After my death I wish no other herald,
                                                 Opens the gate.
    Answer not: I am gone.                             Exit PAGE
    Goodness and he fill up one monument!
  POLIXENES. That's likewise part of my intelligence; but, I fear, the  
    lief have been myself alone.
  COSTARD. Of other men's secrets, I beseech you.
    A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
    Enter his chamber, view his breathless corpse,
    scar'd my choughs from the chaff, I had not left a purse alive in
  FASTOLFE. My gracious sovereign, as I rode from Calais,  

  CAESAR. And you are come in very happy time
    More than your force move us to gentleness.
  FALSTAFF. Quoit him down, Bardolph, like a shove-groat shilling.

  
  Laer. Where is this king?- Sirs, staid you all without.
  Thy outward thus with outward praise is crowned,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Nay, master, both in mind and in my shape.
    My good and gracious Lord of Canterbury.

  Pedro. Look, here she comes.
    Thy father bears the type of King of Naples,
    "Brutus, thou sleep'st: awake and see thyself!
    And then it was when the unhappy King
  MENENIUS. I'll keep you company. Will you along?
    But honors you, and every one doth wish
    Do we not likewise see our learning there?
Scene II.
    But once he slander'd me with bastardy;
  Unless you would devise some virtuous lie,
  Edm. I will seek him, sir, presently; convey the business as I
    In evils to top Macbeth.
  SILVIA. Belike she thinks that Proteus hath forsook her.
LUCIANA. Gaze where you should, and that will clear your sight.
  MRS. PAGE. How now, sweetheart, who's at home besides
    Did Jessica steal from the wealthy Jew,

    health.
    I will not be denied. Sweet heart, look back.
    Were not in fault, for she was beautiful;
  BOLINGBROKE. Joy absent, grief is present for that time.
    That this is true, father, behold his blood.

  BOLINGBROKE. My lord, my answer is-'to Lancaster';
  KING JOHN. O, where hath our intelligence been drunk?
  HECTOR. It would discredit the blest gods, proud man,
    And hear thou there how many fruitless pranks
    more of him; you'll be whipt for taxation one of these days.
    You should live twice in it, and in my rhyme.
    With league whose date till death shall never end.
            So beggars marry many.
    Which makes thee thus presumptuous and proud,
    And go we, lords, to put in practice that
  POLIXENES. I'll have thy beauty scratch'd with briers and made
  STEPHANO. If thou beest a man, show thyself in thy  
  SALISBURY. Thump? Then see thou thump thy master well.
  APEMANTUS. I will fly, like a dog, the heels o' th' ass.  Exit
    I'll play the orator as well as Nestor,
    new-born. Here's a sight for thee; look thee, a bearing-cloth for
  OTHELLO. She is protectress of her honor too.  
    Who like a brother toil'd in my affairs
  Con. Away! you are an ass, you are an ass.
  YORK. Speak, Winchester; for boiling choler chokes
    To prove, by God's grace and my body's valour,
    Here comes the lady; let her witness it.
  With what I most enjoy contented least,
  GLOUCESTER. Well, sir, we must have you find your legs.
  VOLUMNIA. O, no more, no more!
SCENE IV.
    Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
  CLEOPATRA. O Charmian,
    Be you then as the people's officer.
  And in abundance addeth to his store,
    Nor how to use your brothers brotherly,
  DOLABELLA. Though he be honourable-
    any from mine that might offend your Majesty.
  MRS. PAGE. That likewise have we thought upon, and
  BIONDELLO. Why, no, sir.
    I cannot leave to love, and yet I do;  
     Remembers not these garments; nor I know not

    The law allows it and the court awards it.

    And from the organ-pipe of frailty sings
    When what's not meet, but what must be, was law,
    Small showers last long, but sudden storms are short;
    none of it. Honour is a mere scutcheon- and so ends my catechism.
  To me fair friend you never can be old,
  THE PRINCE OF MOROCCO, suitor to Portia
    Savagely slaughter'd. To relate the manner

    Or study where to meet some mistress fine,
    Brim full of sorrow and dismay; but chiefly
    When thou dost pinch thy bearer, thou dost sit
                        THE SONG
DUKE. Why, this is strange. Go call the Abbess hither.
    But that you shall sustain moe new disgraces
    By any other name would smell as sweet.
    how thou dar'st venture to be drunk not being a tall fellow,
    And when thou hast done this chare, I'll give thee leave
  COSTARD. Pray you, sir, how much carnation ribbon may a man buy for
  POMPEY. All houses in the suburbs of Vienna must be pluck'd down.
    And steep'd in blood? Ah, what an unkind hour
    And yet of moment too, for it concerns
    The ivy which had hid my princely trunk
    It was excess of wine that set him on;
  DUKE. It is your husband mock'd you with a husband.
    Troubles the silver spring where England drinks;  
  CORIOLANUS. Shall remain!  
    Tell her thou mad'st away her uncle Clarence,
    Can do no service on her sorrowful cheeks.
    Change the complexion of her maid-pale peace
    And poison it in the source, and the first stone
  HELENA.  [To BERTRAM]  I dare not say I take you; but I give
  POMPEY. Mistress Overdone.
  Hot. If I mistake not, thou art Harry Monmouth.

  CAESAR. Nay, then.                                  [They sit]
  VALENTINE. Then speak the truth by her; if not divine,
  YOUNG SIWARD O Thou liest, abhorred tyrant; with my sword
    Our strength as weak, our weakness past compare,
    pieces.  
    Which had superfluous kings for messengers
  CLEOPATRA. Let me sit down. O Juno!
    face? You are now out of your text; but we will draw the curtain
    More fit to do another such offence  
  Reg. And speak't again my lord. No more with me.
    Insisting on the old prerogative
    Which might have well becom'd the best of men
    In censure of his seeming.
    Well, of sufferance comes ease.
  BRUTUS. No man bears sorrow better. Portia is dead.
  BUCKINGHAM. He did, my gracious lord, begin that place,

  Do not so much as my poor name rehearse;
    therefore prepare yourself to death. Do not satisfy your
    Some one take order Buckingham be brought
    No more to undertake it, I will work him
    What you have seen him do and heard him speak,
    With most miraculous organ, I'll have these Players
    Shall the contents discover, something rare
  LYSANDER. And so the lion vanish'd.
  King. For all the world,
    And stol'n my love's heart from him?
    To tread them with her tender-feeling feet.
  SHALLOW. That's good too; but what needs either your mum
    Sir Robert might have eat his part in me
     Is it your will? Speak, sir!- Prepare my horses.
  Friar. For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.
    Lycurguses- if the drink you give me touch my palate adversely, I

    Marry, as for Clarence, he is well repaid;

  PETER. Foreknowing that the truth will fall out so.
    But cheerly seek how to redress their harms.
    If I have kill'd the issue of your womb,
    Is to do thus [emhracing], when such a mutual pair
  EDWARD. Bring forth that fatal screech-owl to our house,
           With toss-pots still had drunken heads,
    I am thankful to you, and I'll go along
    Drag hence her husband to some secret hole,
    She that accuses him of fornication,
    And show no sign of fear.
  Rom. I thought all for the best.

    Then, if you will elect by my advice,
    Though sometimes it show greatness, courage, blood-
  PIERCY. The castle royally is mann'd, my lord,
    My father is gone wild into his grave,
  Ben. And what to?
    Ye must all see the Queen, and she must thank ye,
    And now forthwith shall articles be drawn
    For, in an act of this importance, 'twere
    Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make,
     To make him even o'er the time he has lost.
    The parts that fortune hath bestow'd upon her,
    What I have done being young, or what would do,
     If for I want that glib and oily art
    Does pay the act of it, as, i' th' contrary,
    So much besmear it. Pardon me, good lady;
  Kent. I am come
    Time was I did him a desired office,
    have been tonight exceedingly well cudgeled; and I think the
    Princes have but their titles for their glories,
    Thou shalt fly him, and he shall seek thy love.
        other door PETER, his man, with a drum and sandbag,
    To be discover'd, that can do me good?
    To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear,
    As I foretold you, were all spirits, and
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Let's hear it.
  WOLSEY. I do profess
    To come alone, either he so undertaking
    Young Ned, for thee thine uncles and myself
    As Pompey was, am I compell'd to set
     Who sometime, in his better tune, remembers
    Commotions, uproars, with a general taint
  AGAMEMNON. O, no, you shall not go.
  ENOBARBUS. Why, sir, give the gods a thankful sacrifice. When it
  MOWBRAY. Thus do the hopes we have in him touch ground
    And you shall find me, wretched man, a thing
    Whom passion could not shake? whose solid virtue
    Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world,
  ULYSSES. Achilles stands i' th' entrance of his tent.
    In both my eyes he doubly sees himself,
    That has a name. But there's no bottom, none,
  MOWBRAY. My name is Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk;
  SPEED. 'Item: She can spin.'
    anything indeed too, and roundly too. There was I, and little
    In monumental mock'ry. Take the instant way;
    To win your daughter.
    My talk to thee must be how Benedick
                Enter first Murtherer to the door.
    The deserts of Bohemia?
  SILVIA. Who calls?
    Which being shallow, you shall give me leave
     Of my huge sorrows! Better I were distract.

     Which presently they read; on whose contents,
  BEROWNE. Nay, then will I be gone.
    Holy King Henry, and thy fair son Edward,

    Unto our sister Bona.
  MIRANDA. Wherefore did they not
  KING HENRY. Where did you dwell when I was King of England?  
    Main chance, father, you meant; but I meant Maine,
    Virtue he had, deserving to command;
    Fie, painted rhetoric! O, she needs it not!
    Where is the Prince your brother?
    Alexander; Arinado's page, Hercules; the pedant, Judas
    To fright them ere destroy. But come in;
    But to rejoice in splendour of my own.              [Exeunt.]
     Wise in our negligence, have secret feet
    He hath but as offended in a dream!
               Under the walls of Alexandria
                   Re-enter SERVANT

    'Twas very Cloten.

      With everything that pretty bin,

    Love and languish for his sake.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    To join with men in scorning your poor friend?
  LADY MACDUFF. Everyone that does so is a traitor and must be
  QUEEN. So, Green, thou art the midwife to my woe,
  GOWER. What do you call him?
    My wretchedness unto a row of pins,
  IAGO. Lechery, by this hand; an index and obscure prologue to the
  FREDERICK. Do so; I'll not be by.
    your bounty. Take them in.
    In open market-place produc'd they me
  THERSITES. He must fight singly to-morrow with Hector, and is so
    Having often of your open bounty tasted,
    first possess'd them, partly by the dark night, which did deceive
    To sing a requiem and such rest to her
    PHILIP THE BASTARD, his half-brother
  TRANIO. Patience, good Katherine, and Baptista too.
    All causes shall give way. I am in blood

  KING HENRY. I am a gentleman of a company.
    Awake the snorting citizens with the bell,  
    And when I am a-horseback, I will swear
    In this distracted globe. Remember thee?
    As thou art to this hour, was Richard then
    Of that which hath so faithfully been paid.
    Why are thine eyes fix'd to the sullen earth,
    Abhorr'd your person.
    As you yourself have forg'd against yourself
    And by an by a cloud takes all away!
    Law cannot give my child his kingdom here,
  And, by the benefit of his wished light,
  FRANCIS. Sir, Ancient Pistol's below and would speak with you.
    do what I can for them all three, for so I have promis'd,  
    Whose bosom was my crownet, my chief end-
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>

  CARDINAL. Ambitious Warwick, let thy betters speak.
    The noble Westmoreland and warlike Blunt,
    The flighty purpose never is o'ertook
    my bastard, what a joyful father wouldst thou make me! Go to;
      Aroused vengeance sets him new awork;
    had been swell'd! I should have been a mountain of  
             Sad Lucretia's modesty.
    To-morrow's vengeance on the head of Richard.
    You shall not be my judge; for it is you
    he would answer I spake not true. This is call'd the Reproof
  APEMANTUS. No, thou stand'st single; th'art not on him yet.  
    As if the cause were his.
     Must be of such unnatural degree
    Finger of birth-strangled babe
    So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.  
    Of every hearer; for it so falls out

    Calling him 'Humphrey, the good Duke of Gloucester,'

  And by me, had not our hap been bad.

    And I will purge thy mortal grossness so
  CLOWN. She is not well, but yet she has her health; she's very
    Master Brook, shalt know him for knave and cuckold.
  LEWIS. Ah, foul shrewd news! Beshrew thy very heart!
    Like to his father's greatness. His approach,
    had so much blood in him?  
  RICHMOND. Good lords, conduct him to his regiment.
    Like to a pair of loving turtle-doves
    What towns of any moment but we have?

    When in that moment, so it came to pass,

    Be as a cauterizing to the root o' th' tongue,
    Though you perceive me not how I give line.  
    And in the spirit of men there is no blood.
    And with thy shame thy father's sorrow die!
    Since Richard and Northumberland, great friends,
  ARIEL. Thou liest; thou canst not.
    Save back to England, an the world's my way.            Exit
                     Enter [Oswald the] Steward.

  Edm. Not I. Pray you, what are they?
    That you did nothing purpose 'gainst the state,
    Frown on, you heavens, effect your rage with speed.
     His mind so venomously that burning shame
    Already are i' the court.
  ULYSSES. Fie, fie upon her!


    troll-my-dames; I knew him once a servant of the Prince. I cannot
  FIRST SERVANT. But it raises the greater war between him and his
    Of such misery doth she cut me off.
    ears for my labour.
    to fear no colours.
    And never ask'd for restitution.
  VIOLA. How can this be?
                        Enter a MESSENGER
    The sweat of industry would dry and die
    That envied his receipt; even so most fitly

    Before you, Lepidus.
    And let Sebastian wake.' Say this were death
    They quite forget their loss of liberty.  
    That all the standers-by had wet their cheeks
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
Enter Romeo, Mercutio, Benvolio, with five or six other Maskers; Torchbearers.
    Thrice hath this Hotspur, Mars in swathling clothes,
  SHALLOW. I am Robert Shallow, sir, a poor esquire of this county,
     How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is
    Stands in the gap and trade of moe preferments,
    Attended him on bridges, stood in lanes,
    And, gallant Warwick, do but answer this:
  PISTOL. Didst not thou share? Hadst thou not fifteen pence?
    Vilely bound up? What would he say? Or how
    Falls shrewdly to the purpose.
    Clifford, I say, come forth and fight with me.
    The founder of this law and female bar.

    And this last night here in Philippi fields.
  BAPTISTA. Lucentio is your name? Of whence, I pray?

    We grieve at chances here. Away!      Exeunt all but PISANIO
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  Beat. 'Then' is spoken. Fare you well now. And yet, ere I go, let
  Wor. Yea, but a little charge will trench him here
    any, speak, for him have I offended. I pause for a reply.
    When great things labouring perish in their birth.

  KING. We lost a jewel of her, and our esteem
    Now have you heard the truth: what say you, Romans?
  CARDINAL. Believe me, cousin Gloucester,
    What Cloten's being here to us portends,  
    Remember. Madam, fare you well;
  Ver. All furnish'd, all in arms;
    What's like to be their words: 'We did request it;
  MRS. PAGE. I warrant thee; if I do not act it, hiss me.
    As best befits her wounded reputation,
    Claudio be executed by four of the clock, and, in the afternoon,  
    Murder her brothers, and then marry her!  
    To every new protester, if you know
      Lear, King of Britain.
    and go between you both; and in any case have a
    Thus speaks of him at Rome; but I will hope
         But doth suffer a sea-change
    There must be needs a like proportion
                       Exeunt CLEOPATRA, ENOBARBUS, and the rest
     fiend. Still through the hawthorn blows the cold wind; says  

    Come, death, and welcome! Juliet wills it so.
    That fair for which love groan'd for and would die,
  FIRST LORD. You must not enter.
  RUGBY. Sir?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Now shall he try his friends that flatter'd him.
  IAGO. Ay, if you dare do yourself a profit and a right. He sups
    Have turn'd mine eye and wept. But, good Pisanio,
  MARCIUS. Then shall we hear their 'larum, and they ours.
  ALL. Alas, and woe!
    Did prophesy that Richmond should be King,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  Doubting the filching age will steal his treasure,
  Mer. Good King of Cats, nothing but one of your nine lives. That I
    And if thou fail us, all our hope is done.
    These hands are free from guiltless bloodshedding,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Where and what time your Majesty shall please.
  OTHELLO. If you bethink yourself of any crime
    turn'd outward!
    Withdraw yourselves.                       Exeunt ATTENDANTS

    He never was so womanish; the cause
    With hounds of Sparta; never did I hear
  Prince. He that rides at high speed and with his pistol kills a
  The injuries that to my self I do,

    For then she could stand high-lone; nay, by th' rood,
Another part of the plain
    Your children were vexation to your youth;
    No longer Celia, but Aliena.
    If murdering innocents be executing,
    Thy place is fill'd, thy sceptre wrung from thee,
    It shall make honor for you.
     All the stor'd vengeances of heaven fall
    I will not tarry; no, nor ever more
  A mere anatomy, a mountebank,
    Thy father, Minos, that denied our course;
    Where in the purlieus of this forest stands
    And ruthless slaughters as are daily seen
    Befitting this first meeting. Welcome, sir;

    Did not attend him as we rode? I think
    And you can witness with me this is true.
    When theirs are dry, for Romeo's banishment.
    In memory of her, when she is dead,
    To make this good?  
  LADY MACBETH. You lack the season of all natures, sleep.
  GLOUCESTER. Than my Lord Hastings no man might be
    And had the tribute of his supple knee,
  THYREUS. Shall I say to Caesar
  WARWICK. If thou deny, their blood upon thy head;
  WARWICK. Tush, that was but his fancy; blame him not;  
  RODERIGO. Well.
    In resolution to keep Helen still;
    It is religion to be thus forsworn;
                Exit the KING, frowning upon the CARDINAL; the NOBLES
OF GLOUCESTER, SALISBURY, WARWICK, and CARDINAL BEAUFORT, on the one side;
    My wife can speak no English, I no Welsh.  
    And go with you.                                            Exit.
    None else of name and noble estimate.
    O noble English, that could entertain
    All for my master's sake, Lucentio.
    Making the bold wag by their praises bolder.
  OTHELLO. I had forgot thee. O, come in, Emilia.
  Leon. Daughter, remember what I told you. If the Prince do solicit
    And therefore frame your manners to the time.
  CONSTANCE. Thou monstrous injurer of heaven and earth,
          When priests are more in word than matter;
  TWO BRITISH CAPTAINS
  GEORGE. But when we saw our sunshine made thy spring,
    Is tight and yare, and bravely rigg'd, as when  
    Why dost thou weep? Canst thou the conscience lack
             To the best bride-bed will we,

    The rather that you give his offspring life,
    (As I perceiv'd it, I must tell you that,
    I should woo hard but be your groom. In honesty
    And now at last, laden with honour's spoils,
    your faces. For me, I will make shift for one; and so God's curse
  DIOMEDES. Even she.
    That I yet know not?
    forward, we had all been made men.
  JAQUES. I'll give you a verse to this note that I made yesterday in
       Thunder. Third Apparition: a Child crowned,

    some excellent music; for to-morrow night we would have it at the
  Bard. O, my lord, my lord! the sheriff with a most monstrous watch
    You are the hare of whom the proverb goes,
    Thou art the issue of my dear offence,
    proud, I will read politic authors, I will baffle Sir Toby, I
  PANDARUS. What says my sweet queen, my very very sweet queen?
    To cleave a heart in twain.
  BRUTUS. Grant that, and then is death a benefit;
  ULYSSES. All's done, my lord.
    With any but with us.
    O night, which ever art when day is not!
  DUCHESS. Who hath committed them?
    could have taught my love to take thy father for mine; so wouldst
  ISABELLA. Little have you to say,
  POLIXENES. As thou lov'st me, Camillo, wipe not out the rest of thy
    For I have seen more years, I'm sure, than ye.
  CURTIS. How?
    Drink, ho!- are nothing to your English.
    Becomes a warlike people, whom we reckon
    Messina.
Enter DUKE, THURIO, and PROTEUS
    What have you done? Behold, the heavens do ope,
    I did not bid you mar it to the time.
     An unknown opposite. Thou art not vanquish'd,
    But few now living can behold that goodness-
    Upon a dwarfish thief.
                                   [Gives him a paper. Flourish]
  Beat. The Count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, nor well; but
    And God, not we, hath plagu'd thy bloody deed.
    never move thee in French, unless it be to laugh at me.
  DUKE. Not Isabel?
    Who lack not virtue, no, nor power, but that
    That will encounter with our glorious sun
    I shall be lov'd when I am lack'd. Nay, mother,
    Ready to catch each other by the throat,
    To fair content and you. None here, he hopes,
    I have the patience to endure it now.
    sweet lady, and her death shall fall heavy on you. Let me hear
    That kneel'd unto the buds. Admit him, sir.     Exit SERVANT
  PUCELLE. The princely Charles of France, thy countryman.
  DUKE. Why, this is excellent.
    Lost by his father, with all bands of law,
  King. Will you know them then?

  KING. Here is my hand; the premises observ'd,
    To taunt and scorn you thus opprobriously?  
  Ham. Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned Dane,
  GEORGE. I tell thee Jack Cade the clothier means to dress the
     To set thee here?
    A virgin, and his servant, say to him.
  ACHILLES. Now do I see thee, ha! Have at thee, Hector!
  KING JOHN. Ay me, this tyrant fever burns me up
  DUKE. Love talks with better knowledge, and knowledge with dearer
    Alas, you three on me, threefold distress'd,
    else, with mine own picture on the top on't, Colville kissing my
  FIRST CITIZEN. Before we proceed any further, hear me speak.
  BRUTUS. I heard him swear,
    Keep my need up, and faith is trodden down!
    Break up their drowsy grave and newly move
    God, God, forgive us all! Look after her;
  Verg. You have been always called a merciful man, partner.
    wreck;

  To quit the penalty and to ransom him.
    It is impossible that I should die
  CAESAR. Strike not by land; keep whole; provoke not battle
    And better 'twere that both of us did fast,
  PERDITA. No; like a bank for love to lie and play on;
    Despite Duke Humphrey or the Cardinal.
    This show'r, blown up by tempest of the soul,
  PISANIO. And kiss'd it, madam.
    Added to their familiarity-
                       Enter Tybalt.
  SECOND MURTHERER. He needs not our mistrust, since he delivers
    the dukedom of Maine.
    A virtue that was never seen in you.
    That will forsake thee and go home in peace.
  Queen. The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
    desire deliverance from these officers, being upon hasty
ABBESS. Haply in private.
  POINS. I am your shadow, my lord; I'll follow you.
    Of the false sweet bait that we lay for it.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. No, to their lives ill friends were
  
    Root of hemlock digg'd i' the dark,
    A double blessing is a double grace;
  Laer. Have at you now!
    Associated with Aufidius, rages
    Before thy most assured overthrow;
    among the prudent he would quickly have the gift of a grave.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    But she would spell him backward. If fair-fac'd,
    In asking their good loves; but thou wilt frame
                          Enter a MESSENGER
    I cannot sing. I'll weep, and word it with thee;  
    Must have a stop. O, I could prophesy,
    Go to my cave and tell me. Good old man,

    I'faith, sweet love, I was coming to your house.
  SALERIO. We'll make our leisures to attend on yours.
  PISTOL. As many devils entertain; and 'To her, boy,' say I.
    was to put a ducat in her clack-dish. The Duke had crotchets in  
  Hor. You might have rhym'd.
    That our French gallants shall to-day draw out,
  ANTONY. Thank you.
    I long to hear him call the drunkard 'husband';
                    Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
  EVANS. He is a good sprag memory. Farewell, Mistress Page.
  BUCKINGHAM. Your Grace shall give me leave, my Lord of York,
                                            [Throws up a skull.]
    the justice of your dealing?
              If truth holds true contents.
    To see this gracious season.
    Now follow, if thou dar'st, to try whose right,
  ANTONIO. I know it well.
  Host. Say, what beast, thou knave, thou?
    That all in England did repute him dead-
    I list not prophesy; but let Time's news
    We must prepare to meet with Caliban.
    The royal fool thou cop'st with-
  DUKE. So that, from point to point, now have you hear
  King. These things, indeed, you have articulate,  
    turn them together. A man may be too confident. I would
    small thanks for my labour.
  3. Serv. We cannot be here and there too. Cheerly, boys!
  TIMON. Yes.
    And still rest thine. The storm begins. Poor wretch,
    Do not go forth today. Call it my fear
    She carry armour as she hath begun.
  FALSTAFF. No, I think thou art not; I think thou art quit for that.
    That holds in chase mine honour up and down?
    Have stood to charity and display'd th' effects
  KING HENRY. God quit you in his mercy! Hear your sentence.
    She cannot be so much without true judgment
    From which even here I slip my weary head
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. I go. Write to me very shortly,
    And though you know my inwardness and love
  ISABELLA. O, let him marry her!
    Even so mayest thou the giddy men of Rome.
  CLARENCE. Yea, Richard, when I know; for I protest  
    That bites the first-born infants of the spring.
  SILVIA. No more, gentlemen, no more. Here comes my father.
    Long kept in Britaine at our mother's cost?
    By her high forehead and her scarlet lip,
    His remedies are tame. The present peace
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Will I make good against thee, arm to arm,
    mine and I am yours, then yours is France and you are mine.
    And make us wade even in our kindred's blood-
    How things go from him, nor resumes no care

    And keep the Frenchmen in allegiance.
    Throng many doubtful hollow-hearted friends,
    Not she; nor doth she tempt; but it is I
  WOLSEY. What's that?
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Uproar the universal peace, confound
  NYM. Pish!  
    In the seat royal of this famous isle?

    When time is old and hath forgot itself,
    For underneath an alehouse' paltry sign,
    Amongst his subjects and his loyal friends,
    And since this business so fair is done,
    That so the shadows be not unappeas'd,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    We'll forward towards Warwick and his mates;  
    You are very well met. Goddild you for your last company. I am
     and therefore comes to speak with you. I told him you were
    Since she is living, let the time run on
  MENAS. Caesar and Lepidus
  CLARENCE. O, do not slander him, for he is kind.
    Do swarm upon him -from the Western Isles
    We shall be charg'd again. Whiles we have struck,
  TALBOT. With scoffs, and scorns, and contumelious taunts,
    To her desir'd Posthumus. Gone she is
  ANGELO. Who will believe thee, Isabel?
    I come to talk of commonwealth affairs.
  YOUNG SIWARD. The devil himself could not pronounce a title
                                                     Exit BIANCA
    If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
  BRUTUS. Not I.
    So fair an outward and such stuff within
    As all the poisonous potions in the world,
  MRS. PAGE. Quickly, quickly! Is the buck-basket-
  During which time he ne'er saw Syracuse.
     have made of it hath not been little. He always lov'd our  
    The means that dusky Dis my daughter got,
    This yellow slave

    a deadly sorrow to behold a foul knave uncuckolded. Therefore,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  Was sleeping by a virgin hand disarmed.
    Out of the Duke of Buckingham.
  ALONSO. And Trinculo is reeling ripe; where should they
    Casaer hath hang'd him. Canidius and the rest
  BRUTUS. That you do love me, I am nothing jealous;
    Incens'd the lords o' th' Council, that he is-
  TRANIO. But youth in ladies' eyes that flourisheth.
    More than the common blocks. Not noted, is't,
  KATHERINA. I pray you, let it stand.
  If the dull substance of my flesh were thought,
  Gent. Your lady, sir, your lady! and her sister
    And show me to the shouting varletry
    That in their sleeps will mutter their affairs;
    And therefore comes my brother Montague.
    Will they not hear? What, ho! you men, you beasts,  
  This is some priory. In, or we are spoil'd.
  Ver. Pray God my news be worth a welcome, lord.
                          and forces
  Osw. Madam, here comes my lord.                          Exit.
  SICINIUS. Go see him out at gates, and follow him,  

    I was too young that time to value her,
    It fits us, then, to be as provident
    of the peace, if I see a sword out, my finger itches to make
  Mer. Farewell, ancient lady. Farewell,
    And burns me up with flames that tears would quench.
    If Hermia meant to say Lysander lied!
    This nurse, this teeming womb of royal kings,
  MARGARET. I were best leave him, for he will not hear.
          Fortune, that arrant whore,  
    Which, as it seems, make thee.
    Now my soul's palace is become a prison.  
The forest
    Her traces, of the smallest spider's web;
    To gentle exercise and proof of arms.
    And dares him to set forward to the fight.
    Unless it were a bloody murderer,
     Yields to the theft. Had he been where he thought,
  NERISSA. Ay, if a woman live to be a man.
    That faultless may condemn a nobleman!
  2. Car. Why, they will allow us ne'er a jordan, and then we leak in
     I desir'd their leave that I might pity him, they took from me
    Either from the King or in the present time,
    a fool.' The heathen philosopher, when he had a desire to eat a
  'So many have, that never touched his hand,  
    Only my plague thus far I count my gain,
  ORLANDO. I attend them with all respect and duty.
     I would not from your love make such a stray

                           Enter LUCIO
  Montague, heads of two houses at variance with each other.
    My arms such eel-skins stuff'd, my face so thin
  STANLEY. Well, hie thee to thy lord; I kiss his hand;
    My Lord of Westmoreland, and uncle Exeter,
    That the mad Brutus ended; he alone
     I did commend your Highness' letters to them,
  LUCIUS' SERVANT. Five thousand mine.
    That ever wretched age hath look'd upon.
    Give you all greetings that a king, at friend,
  PROTEUS. Madam, if your heart be so obdurate,
    This in the name of God I promise here;
  POMPEY. What, I pray you?
    Caius Marcius.
  Glou. Now let thy friendly hand
    That hast deceiv'd so many with thy vows?
  ALL. The will, the will! We will hear Caesar's will.
    And it shall be as all the ocean,
    tell, good sir, for which of his virtues it was, but he was
    Shall I not lie in publishing a truth?
  VALENTINE. What should I see then?
  LEONTES. A nest of traitors!
  KING. Have I not made you
    I care no more for than I do for heaven,
    With thy chaste eye, from thy pale sphere above,
    A ram and bleated; and the fire-rob'd god,
    My speech and what is done, tell him he has
Enter a Porter. Knocking within.

Enter POSTHUMUS alone, with a bloody handkerchief
    Then walk we forth, even to the marketplace,
  CLARENCE. Relent, and save your souls.  
    I must and will have Katherine to my wife.
  SALISBURY. Nay, 'tis in a manner done already;
  PROVOST. You, sirrah, provide your block and your axe to-morrow
    Mine eyes are made the fools o' the other senses,
    When they change us for others? Is it sport?
    It may be probable she lost it, or
    Hath given the duchy of Anjou and Maine
  Fool. He that has a house to put 's head in has a good head-piece.
  Hot. What, ho!
    He would have weigh'd thy brother by himself,
    Sit with my cousin; lend him your kind pains  
  Hot. And you in hell, as oft as he hears
    Without a parallel, those being all my study-
                                                 Exit SIR ANDREW
    On his shoulder, and his; her face o' fire
    But at fourscore it is too late a week;
  ANTONY. She is cunning past man's thought.
  LAFEU. And what would you have me to do? 'Tis too late to pare her
  ANNE. I do not know
    After the bloody fray at Wakefield fought,

    Than these thin habits and poor likelihoods
    But resolution and the briefest end.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    courageous captain of compliments. He fights as you sing
    To her unworthiness. It nothing steads us
    Cunning in music and the mathematics,
    Let noble Warwick, Cobham, and the rest,
  BRUTUS. Prepare the body then, and follow us.
  IMOGEN. Thou shouldst have made him
  CORIOLANUS. Let me but stand- I will not hurt your hearth.

    For some dishonest manners of their life,
    Of virtue for the name; but do not so.
    have blowed up the town, so Chrish save me, la, in an hour. O,
  Oph. I shall th' effect of this good lesson keep
ADRIANA. I know the man. What is the sum he owes?
    Be candidatus then, and put it on,
    And not a tinker, nor Christopher Sly.
    Or, at the least, in hers sepulchre thine.
    her; in heart you love her, because your heart is in love with
    In her strong toil of grace.
    To whisper. At the which let no man wonder.
  QUEEN. To please the King, I did; to please myself
  MALVOLIO. My prayers, minx!
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Then she bears some breadth?
    Might corrupt minds procure knaves as corrupt
    With thy confederates in this weighty cause.            Exit
  POMPEY. Why, very well; I telling you then, if you be rememb'red,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    ware; you'll be so true to him to be false to him. Do not you
    Which he achiev'd by th' minute, lost his favour.
  IAGO. Go to; say no more.                              Exit Cassio.
  CELIA. As good cause as one would desire; therefore weep.
    I must produce my power. Here, take her hand,
  VARRO'S SERVANT. Thou art not altogether a fool.
    Nay, tell me if you speak in jest or no.
    Would I or not. Tell him I'll none of it.
    Into his ears. I may say "thrusting" it,
     That's something yet! Edgar I nothing am.             Exit.
    And will they undertake to do me good?
    Our aery buildeth in the cedar's top,
    That gave't surmised shape. Why then, you princes,
    conjunction with the participation of society that they flock
  GENTLEWOMAN. It is an accustomed action with her, to seem thus
  RIVERS. By heaven, my soul is purg'd from grudging hate;
    Strike a free march to Troy. With comfort go;
    Though Nestor swear the jest be laughable.
    He seeks my life; his reason well I know:
    On whom depending, their obedience fails
  Rom. Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?
  ULYSSES. [Aside to TROILUS] Follow his torch; he goes to
  BOTTOM. Masters, I am to discourse wonders; but ask me not what;
    Tell me your counsels, I will not disclose 'em.
    Thou mayst co-join with something; and thou dost-
                  Enter Ross and WILLOUGHBY
Trebonius, Cinna, Antony, Lepidus, Popilius, Publius, and others.
    He will be found a dangerous Protector.
  MACBETH. We will proceed no further in this business:
    But, like the owner of a foul disease,
    The one is filling still, never complete;
       Re-enter PROVOST, with BARNARDINE, CLAUDIO (muffled)
  So long as youth and thou are of one date,
    The good gods will mock me presently
  PISTOL. Why, then, let kibes ensue.
  QUEEN. It made me laugh to see the villain run.
    Sometime a horse I'll be, sometime a hound,
    Th' abhorr'd ingredient to his eye, make known
    I scarce did know you, uncle; there lies your niece,
    when he number'd thirty; 'a will be here to-morrow, or I am
    Disguise us at my lodging, and return

    His days may finish ere that hapless time.              Exit
    If you shall send them word you will not come,
    Than thine own worth prefer thee. Go with me.
    full of most excellent differences, of very soft society and
  BRUTUS. You did.
  PETRUCHIO. Should be! should- buzz!
  VINCENTIO. Where is that damned villain, Tranio,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  APEMANTUS. Would thou wouldst burst!
  And for they looked but with divining eyes,
    Falstaff, and drink canary with him.               Exit HOST
  Not from the stars do I my judgement pluck,
PARIS, DEIPHOBUS, ANTENOR, DIOMEDES the Grecian, and others, with torches
                                                      Exit WIDOW
    For Time is like a fashionable host,
    Reveal the damn'd contriver of this deed.
    Ay, beauty's princely majesty is such
    Marry, there is another indictment upon thee for suffering flesh
  GRATIANO. About a hoop of gold, a paltry ring
    Than any thou canst conjure up to-day;
  CALIBAN. I say, by sorcery he got this isle;
    to you.
    Like signiors and rich burghers on the flood,
    Shall think themselves accurs'd they were not here,
    To the last hour of act; and then, 'tis thought,
    And there's an oath of credit.
    Her heart inform her tongue- the swan's down feather,
  EMILIA. Nor I neither by this heavenly light; I might do't as well
    If to my sword his fate be not the glory,
    If she confess that she was half the wooer,

  CLEOPATRA. No, let me speak; and let me rail so high
    And that which most with you should safe my going,
   10. Certain LADIES or COUNTESSES, with plain circlets of gold
  MONTJOY. Thus says my king. Say thou to Harry of England: Though we
    Then death rock me asleep, abridge my doleful days!
    Was Cressid here?
    Into your guiding power. This is the man.
    some instruction. It is not words that shakes me thus. Pish!
  GRATIANO. 'Tis some mischance; the cry is very direful.
    Go thither, and with unattainted eye
    Shall tax my fears of little vanity,
     That stripp'd her from his benediction, turn'd her
  GRATIANO.                  All that's spoke is marr'd.
  FALSTAFF. She is pistol-proof, sir; you shall not hardly offend
    That to the use of actions fair and good
    Which rare it is to do- most prais'd, most lov'd,
    I tender so the safety of my liege.
  PETRUCHIO. A senseless villain! Good Hortensio,  
    To th' most of men this is a Caliban,
  BOLINGBROKE. Have thy desire.
    Which the dark night hath so discovered.
    I, then in London, keeper of the King,  

    Thou never shouldst love woman like to me.
    A gentler heart did never sway in court;
  Cur. Have you heard of no likely wars toward 'twixt the two Dukes
  AGUECHEEK. Taurus? That's sides and heart.  
    I know you joy not in a love-discourse.


    To mock the expectation of the world,
  FALSTAFF Marry, she says that the very same man that
    [Speaking as SIR TOPAS] Malvolio, thy wits the heavens restore!
    'Tis past enduring.
                       Re-enter three of the citizens
  ORLANDO. I take some joy to say you are, because I would be talking
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY, CLARENCE, WARWICK, SOMERSET, young HENRY,
  NATHANIEL. Videsne quis venit?
  KING. Know'st thou not, Bertram,
  OTHELLO. I had been happy if the general camp,
    I'll make him send for Lucius his son,
    We'll hold a feast in great solemnity.
    For he conjured her she should ever keep it,
THE TEMPEST
    And seiz'd upon their towns and provinces.
    And then the whole quire hold their hips and laugh,  
  VIOLA. Thy reason, man?
    What, in our house?
  TITANIA. My Oberon! What visions have I seen!
  BASSANIO. I will not fail you.
  In Ephesus I am but two hours old,
     Ere they shall make us weep! We'll see 'em starv'd first.
                          Enter VOLUMNIA
    And wak'd half dead with nothing. Worthy Marcius,
    As you would to your friend.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    But she as far surpasseth Sycorax
    To answer this your charge?
THE TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA
Enter FALSTAFF disguised as HERNE
    May be a devil; and the devil hath power
  Rom. Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel.
    But I'll be master of it. Wilt thou not, beast, abide?
    up after midnight and to go to bed then is early; so that to go
  Ben. My noble uncle, do you know the cause?
    Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
    three such enemies again as that fiend Douglas, that spirit
    And now is York in arms to second him.
    Take not her part; for if thou dost intend
    to you, which these hobby-horses must not hear.
    Thy honour, state, and seat, is due to me.
  MRS. PAGE. Why, look where he comes; and my good man
  Leon. Then half Signior Benedick's tongue in Count John's mouth,
  TIMON. And now I remember, my lord, you gave good words the other
  TROILUS. Beshrew the witch! with venomous wights she stays
    At your best leisure, this his humble suit.
    And their gross painting might be better used,
    worthy, nor his offenses enforced, for which he suffered death.
    Of burning Rome.  
     it; but the great one that goes upward, let him draw thee after.

SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  MALCOLM. This is the sergeant
  DIOMEDES. You must no more.
    Good master, take it not unkindly, pray,
  MACDUFF. Wherefore did you so?
    Salute thee for her king. Till then, fair boy,
    KING JOHN
    And her immortal part with angels lives.
    That through thy bosom makes me see thy heart.
  MACDUFF. The tyrant has not batter'd at their peace?
    With things forgotten. Kind gentlemen, your pains
      have we stood
    Do wound the bark, the skin of our fruit trees,
                    Between the two camps
    Old Salisbury, shame to thy silver hair,
    Then know that I as Snug the joiner am
  Fal. He had his part of it; let him pay.
  OTHELLO. She's like a liar gone to burning hell;
    half a year. But, by'r Lady, he must build churches then; or else
  Rom. And I'll still stay, to have thee still forget,  
    Out of the powerful regions under earth,
    By guileful fair words peace may be obtain'd.
  DEMETRIUS. Do I entice you? Do I speak you fair?
      'If this fall into thy hand, revolve. In my stars I am above
    Reviving blood, and that great men shall press
                          Enter ANGELO
  Leon. A kind overflow of kindness. There are no faces truer than
    Or should or should not bar us in our claim;
    That she shall still be curst in company.  
    Think you 'twere prejudicial to his crown?
    eating and drinking be put down. They say this Angelo was not  
    Paying the fine of rated treachery
    And graceless traitor to her loving lord?
  'For lo, his passion, but an art of craft,
    Peace and content be here! Lord Timon! Timon!
by William Shakespeare
    My fingers itch. Wife, we scarce thought us blest
  Friar. Have comfort, lady.
    her king?
  OTHELLO.               Not I; I must be found.
      brother

    Suffolk first died; and York, all haggled over,
  EVANS. Well, I will smite his noddles. Pray you follow.
    And dreaming night will hide our joys no longer,
    Newly preferr'd from the King's secretary;
                   Exeunt; those above hearing off ANTONY'S body

  PISTOL. As manhood shall compound: push home.
  Possess'd with such a gentle sovereign grace,
         Do me right,
    Antick'd us all. What needs more words? Good night.
    cold as another man's sword will; and there's an end.
  Edm. Sir, I thought it fit
  SICINIUS. We'll meet them,
    To think it should leave crying and say 'Ay.'
    To this your son is mark'd, and die he must
  Other. Go to!

    And trust not simple Henry nor his oaths.
1609
    That in their chains fetter'd the kingly lion
    Let not your hate encounter with my love,
  Proud of subjection, noble by the sway,
  Nurse. This afternoon, sir? Well, she shall be there.
    These broken limbs again into one body;
    Egregious ransom.
   For 'tis your thoughts that now must deck our kings,
    Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
    Go, then, my mother, to thy daughter go;
  PORTIA. O love, dispatch all business and be gone!
  ALL. Paddock calls. Anon!
    his own trumpet, his own chronicle; and whatever praises itself  

  By children's eyes, her husband's shape in mind:
  POSTHUMUS. Still going? This is a lord! O noble misery,
    Remember me at court, where I was taught
    I will not fail her; speak it privately.
    I'll plant Plantagenet, root him up who dares.
    How now! what's the news with you?
    Of things to come at large. It is suppos'd  
  YORK. He rose against him, being his sovereign,
     The gods themselves throw incense. Have I caught thee?
    judgments, wherein so curiously he had set this counterfeit.

    Awake, awake, English nobility!
    A bird that will revenge upon you all;
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  For then despite of space I would be brought,
    Hark, Greek: as much as I do Cressid love,
  SIMPLE. No weapons, sir. There comes my master, Master
        Enter MARCUS ANDRONICUS aloft, with the crown
    Methinks the truth should Eve from age to age,
  DIANA. I see that men make ropes in such a scarre
    'Tis doubt he will be. Letters came last night  
  From whence at pleasure thou mayst come and part,
    Untouch'd or slightly handled in discourse.
  BASSANIO. For thy three thousand ducats here is six.
  King. She sounds to see them bleed.
    I do beseech thee-
  EXTON. From your own mouth, my lord, did I this deed.
    Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
  SECOND MESSENGER. In Sicyon.
     worsted-stocking knave; a lily-liver'd, action-taking, whoreson,
  LADY. No more?  
  Gon. Sir, I love you more than words can wield the matter;

  CHARLES. Somewhat too sudden, sirs, the warning is;
    as Helen is on Sunday. But what care I? I care not an she were a
  LARTIUS. No, I'll nor sell nor give him; lend you him I will
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Peace be with us, lest we be heavier!
    They were given me by Claudio; he receiv'd them
    If you do not, if I be left alone,
    And palter in the shifts of lowness, who
    that upon certain tidings now arrived, importing the mere
    To find out practices of cunning hell
    vice in her goodness not to do more than she is requested. This
    How will she love when the rich golden shaft
  ROSS. Let not your ears despise my tongue forever,  
    You peers, continue this united league.
  BEROWNE. White-handed mistress, one sweet word with thee.
Gloucester's Castle.
    Indeed, left nothing fitting for your purpose
  ROSS. That now
    Now we'll together, and the chance of goodness
    Lest parties- as he is belov'd- break out,
    Lean on your health; the which, if you give o'er
  Bene. Hang it!
  GONZALO. When I wore it at your daughter's marriage?
    And if you please to call it a rush-candle,
Before KING HENRY'S PAVILION
    Though that my death were adjunct to my act,
    And speak I will. I am no child, no babe.
    To him had left it solely.
  CASCA. Stand close awhile, for here comes one in haste.
    And speak between the change of man and boy
  FABIAN. There is no way but this, Sir Andrew.
     With others whom the rigour of our state
SCENE II.
    A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
    Our English troops retire, I cannot stay them;
  BUCKINGHAM. What answer makes your Grace to the rebels'
    As I could pick my lance.
  Rom. She hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste;
    Now I have taken heart thou vanishest.
    Yourself shall go between's. The meantime, lady,
    I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
    As seek to quench the fire of love with words.
  PISTOL. Ha! art thou bedlam? Dost thou thirst, base Troyan,
  VINCENTIO. What if a man bring him a hundred pound or two to make
  Mar. O, wonderful!
    Signior Baptista, you are happily met.
    Still ending at the arrival of an hour.
    And if thou be not then created York,
    What are you then determined to do?
    Be truly welcome hither. I am the Duke
                         with other CAPTAINS
    The desperate tempest hath so bang'd the Turks,
    But I'll unto his Majesty and crave
  But she, more covetous, would have a chain.
  AUTOLYCUS. Get you hence, for I must go
    search.                        Exeunt EVANS, PAGE, and CAIUS
    Who's the next heir of Naples?  
    Hath alter'd that good picture? What's thy interest
    And wide unclasp the tables of their thoughts
  Fal. No, by my troth; not so much as will serve to be prologue to  
  ANTONY. Say to me,
    To lay my crown at 's feet, and there to kneel.
  ANTONIO. I like thy counsel; well hast thou advis'd;
  PAINTER. So it is said, my noble lord; but therefore
    But, being moody, give him line and scope
    Lest thou be hated both of God and man.
    They wilfully themselves exil'd from light,
    As much as he deserves! Pause there, Morocco,
  Jul. What devil art thou that dost torment me thus?
    And thou redeem'st thyself. But all, save thee,
    Both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion,
    With Charles, Alencon, and that traitorous rout.
    The ills we do, their ills instruct us so.
    fair. She is drown'd already, sir, with salt water, though I seem
    Is so from sense in hardness that I can
  As the perfumed tincture of the roses,
    hobnails, by the hundreds.
    To link my dear friend to a common stale.
    Nor sense to ecstacy was ne'er so thrall'd
    I wish you well, and so I take my leave.
    And see thy blood warm when thou feel'st it cold.
    Hearing thy mildness prais'd in every town,
  
    wedding day. If you love her then, to-morrow wed her. But it
  VALENTINE. And I will help thee to prefer her too:
    Go, clear thy crystals. Yoke-fellows in arms,
        Done to death by slanderous tongues
    commendable in none only but parrots. Go in, sirrah; bid them
    Would make the great'st king double, to be partner'd

    Your noble friends do lack you.
    (O royal knavery!), an exact command,
    And labour'd all I could to do him right;
    BLANCH OF SPAIN, daughter to the King of Castile
    You rather mine, being yours. And so, great pow'rs,
  DOLABELLA. Who was last with them?
    sirrah [stabs him], with a new wound in your thigh, come you
  THERSITES. Thou shouldst strike him.
    That grieves me when I see my shame in him.


    facing.
    Stronger than ever law could make; this secret
    Upon the life of this thrice-famed Duke.
    grandsir, that we should be thus afflicted with these strange
    Upon the power and puissance of the King.
    Which drizzled blood upon the Capitol;
  Reg. Was he not companion with the riotous knights
    I made unto the noise, when soon I heard
    As to vouchsafe one glance unto the ground.
    To send down justice for to wreak our wrongs.
  Dog. Moreover, sir, which indeed is not under white and black, this
    This orb o' th' earth. His last offences to us
    I hate ingratitude more in a man
  ACHILLES. Where is this Hector?
    Patroclus ta'en, or slain; and Palamedes  


    And thou shalt see how apt it is to learn
  DIOMEDES. [Aside] And how his silence drinks up this applause!
    That we remain your friend; and so, adieu.
    Hark, boy, what noise is that?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Never come such division 'tween our souls!
    Or who hath brought the fatal engine in
    I hear for certain, and dare speak the truth:
  STANLEY. Come, madam, come; I in all haste was sent.

    So many miles with a pretence? This place?
     [To Goneril] Yes, forsooth, I will hold my tongue. So your face
  BRUTUS. If you did, I care not.
  GUIDERIUS. O sweetest, fairest lily!
    The benefit thereof is always granted
  ACHILLES. Go call Thersites hither, sweet Patroclus.
    Duke Frederick, hearing how that every day
  STEPHANO. Ay, and this.
    To spit on thee again, to spurn thee too.
  CRESSIDA. That were we talking of, and of his anger.
    The Mayor towards Guildhall hies him in an post.
  CHARMIAN. I did not see him since.
  ENOBARBUS. 'A bears the third part of the world, man; see'st not?
    Thou'dst thank me but a little for my counsel,
    Hath nodded him to her. He hath given his empire
    When with a volley of our needless shot,
  Abr. Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
    cap, kiss his hand, and say nothing, has neither leg, hands, lip,
    Why shall we fight, if you pretend no title?
    So to be false with her.
    And not with such a cruel threat'ning look!
    Or touch of her good person?
  SAY. Hear me but speak, and bear me where you will.
    Did triumph in my face, and they are fled;
    Give me a sword, I'll chop off my hands too,
    And he will, after his sour fashion, tell you
    Be that thou know'st thou art, and then thou art
    married of him than of another; for he is not like to marry me
    Of Naples and of Milan, what strange fish
    with't.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. If I be not, heavens be reveng'd on me!

    Give me thy hand. I had a thing to say-
  NORTHUMBERLAND. What would your Grace have done unto him now?
  FIRST CITIZEN. Stay, ho, and let us hear Mark Antony.
  CLOWN. This will I tell my lady straight. I would not be in some of
    To make it clear, but do confess I have
    And they shall live, and he in them still green.
Enter AENEAS, PARIS, ANTENOR, and DEIPHOBUS
  Alb. Thou changed and self-cover'd thing, for shame!  
    Doth make the fault the worse by th' excuse,

  HOLOFERNES. Fauste, precor gelida quando pecus omne sub umbra  
  DUMAIN. I would forget her; but a fever she
    lascivious boy, who is a whale to virginity, and devours up all

    Collected from all simples that have virtue
   Enter CYMBELINE, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS, PISANIO, and Roman

    God is to be worshipp'd; all men are not alike, alas, good
  Leaving thee living in posterity?
    O'ercome with pride, ambitious past all thinking,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    And consequently thy rude hand to act

    Shall taste our mercy. Go and tell them so.
    What masque? what music? How shall we beguile
  Till nature as she wrought thee fell a-doting,
    Your roof were not sufficient to contain 't.
    Thy followers of repentance, that their souls  
  King. Not that I think you did not love your father;
    What men provided, what munition sent,
    To see alike mine honour as their profits,
    Clouds, dews, and dangers come; our deeds are done!
    My body round engirt with misery-
    up in cases, that keep their sounds to themselves. Why, I have
    The Bull, being gall'd, gave Aries such a knock
    Through this the well-beloved Brutus stabb'd;

    It pleases time and fortune to lie heavy
    To be the aim of every dangerous shot,
    In pity of our aged and our youth-
  OCTAVIUS. Stir not until the signal not until the signal.
  MARCUS. O brother, speak with possibility,
  BASTARD. Here's a stay
  IMOGEN. As I am mad, I do;
    And am most sensibly in grief for it,


    Dread lord, the commons send you word by me
call'd PINCH
    How now, Roderigo!
  FIRST CITIZEN. Well, I'll hear it, sir; yet you must not think to
    Call Claudio and some other of my men,
  Ber. 'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
    exhibit their petitions in the street?
          Till he hath lost his honey and his sting;
    Do villainy, do, since you protest to do't,
    Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
    Shall be when your first queen's again in breath;
    Tend'ring the precious safety of my prince,
    England, to mope with his fat-brain'd followers so far out of his
    And corn shall fly asunder; for I know
               Re-enter TITUS ANDRONICUS
  Cor. Sir, do you know me?
    Will thereto be obedient, I have reason;  
    That their designment halts. A noble ship of Venice
    Accords not with the sadness of my suit.
    Father, I may not wish the fortune thine;

    And let me show you him that made the will.
  WESTMORELAND. This will I show the general. Please you, lords,
    us.
  PETRUCHIO. Well, sir, in brief, the gown is not for me.
  Ham. Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.
    By tasting of our wrath? How of descent
  The clear eye's moiety, and the dear heart's part.
    Of your fair flesh, to be cut off and taken
  FIRST LORD. I hope it remains not unkindly with your lordship that
    It is the green-eyed monster, which doth mock
    Not out of absolute lust, though peradventure  
                                          A cry of women within.
    It had been so with us, had we been there.
    Although thy husband may be Menelaus;
    High be our thoughts. I know my uncle York
    Is now the two hours' traffic of our stage;

    If seriously I may convey my thoughts
    Than Aquitaine, a dowry for a queen.

  I know a wench of excellent discourse,
  KING. Come hither, Count; do you know these women?
    Advertising and holy to your business,
    It is our part and promise to th' Athenians
    Which have, like unscour'd armour, hung by th' wall
    And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
    Grandam, this would have been a biting jest.
    That you and I should meet upon such terms

  CLARENCE. As well as Lewis of France or the Earl of Warwick,
    Smacks it not something of the policy?
                             Enter VARRIUS

  AJAX. A paltry, insolent fellow!
    O'er lawyers' fingers, who straight dream on fees;
                                                Exit PHILOSTRATE
    You shall to th' Tower.  
  Whereto the judgment of my heart is tied?
  PISANIO. He hath been search'd among the dead and living,
  GLOUCESTER. Let them be whipp'd through every market town till they
    By longing for that food so long a time.  
Wales. Before the cave of BELARIUS
    To prick us to redress? What other bond
    With them, upon her knees, her humble self,
  TROILUS. O Pandarus! I tell thee, Pandarus-
    But I'll set down the pegs that make this music,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Name them.
  KING EDWARD. are advertis'd by our loving friends
    I charge thee use her well, even for my charge;
  PERCY. His answer was, he would unto the stews,
    Nor bite the lip, as angry wenches will,  
    And would not dash me with their ragged sides,
    Against the use of nature? Present fears
    To see't mine eyes are blasted.
    The spirit of deep prophecy she hath,
  Greg. No, marry. I fear thee!
  ALL SERVANTS. Ay, fool.
  FALSTAFF. Bardolph, I say!
  ANNE.. May be he tells you true.
  MESSENGER. Or I have no observance.
  AUFIDIUS. Therefore, most. absolute sir, if thou wilt have  
  KING JOHN. Mine eye hath well examined his parts
  ELBOW. He must before the deputy, sir; he has given him warning.
    From strange to stranger. Say, how came you hither?
    I am a king, and privileg'd to speak.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    An if my face were but as fair as yours,
    I am the second son of old Sir Rowland,  
  LAFEU. But I hope your lordship thinks not him a soldier.
    Hearing the surges threat. We must all part
    The traitor lives, the true man's put to death.
  APEMANTUS. An th' hadst hated medlars sooner, thou shouldst have

SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    ever came into my note.
  TRINCULO. O King Stephano! O peer! O worthy Stephano!
  CHORUS. Thus far, with rough and all-unable pen,
  CICERO. Good even, Casca. Brought you Caesar home?
    You may be armed and appointed well.
    If after this command thou fraught the court
    The truth appears so naked on my side
    That had befall'n us. As we pac'd along  
                                                         Exeunt.
    It were enough to fright the realm of France.
    What! fear not, man, but yield me up the keys;
  SATURNINUS. Is warlike Lucius general of the Goths?  
    And by the hazard of the spotted die
    door with pistols, that none shall issue out; otherwise you

    I'd have you buy and sell so; so give alms;
    bastard, and a knave, and a rascal. What ish my nation? Who talks
    Where hath it slept? Where is my mother's care,

     not peace at my bidding; there I found 'em, there I smelt 'em
  CASSIUS. What, urge you your petitions in the street?
    John.
    To fierce and bloody inclination.

    May pass into the presence of a king,
  MARCUS. Suffer thy brother Marcus to inter
    Away! for death doth hold us in pursuit.

  SILVIA. Ay, ay, you writ them, sir, at my request;
  Laer. This is too heavy; let me see another.
  SECOND MURDERER. To, to, to-
    Bring thou the master to the citadel;
    Where it did mark, it took; from face to foot
  I found (or thought I found) you did exceed,

                                                Exeunt severally
    Disclaiming here the kindred of the King;
    You know, my lord, your Highness is betroth'd
    From the still-vex'd Bermoothes, there she's hid;
    and 'a said it was a black soul burning in hell?
    If't be your pleasure and most wise consent,
  Despite of wrinkles this thy golden time.
  CLOWN. You are well met, sir. You denied to fight with me this
  KING EDWARD. Widow, we will consider of your suit;  
    Your hand, Salerio. What's the news from Venice?
      If by me broke, what fool is not so wise
  ISABELLA. O, peace! the friar is come.
    That do corrupt my air- I banish you.
    I'll give you Aquitaine and all that is his,
    I' th' field prove flatterers, let courts and cities be  

    First, as I am his kinsman and his subject,
  Lear. O, cry you mercy, sir.  
    Whilst my gross flesh sinks downward, here to die.
  Nature hath charged me that I hoard them not,
  For at a frown they in their glory die.
  IAGO.                     Do not rise yet.                  Kneels.
    Though peril to my modesty, not death on't,
    As thou hast done with me- What, Jessica!-
    My friend, I spy some pity in thy looks;
    And pale destruction meets thee in the face.
    Nor how to study for the people's welfare,
  MACBETH. I think not of them;
  MENENIUS. A letter for me! It gives me an estate of seven years'
    True hope is swift and flies with swallow's wings;
    But when he frown'd, it was against the French
    'Remember now my brother.'

    Shall be so ever.
    To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath
    To help thee curse this poisonous bunch-back'd toad.
    than impudent sauciness from you, can thrust me from a level
                     75
    Turn terror into sport; as weeds before
  ROSALINE. Well-liking wits they have; gross, gross; fat, fat.
  TIMON. Now, Apemantus, if thou wert not sullen
Verona. The garden Of JULIA'S house
    Keep the wild flood confin'd! Let order die!  
    down sleeves, side-sleeves, and skirts, round underborne with  
    Fine apparition! My quaint Ariel,
    There was no link to colour Peter's hat,
    this a place to roar in? Fetch me a dozen crab-tree staves,
  PROVOST. There he must stay until the officer
    good exclamation on your worship as of any man in the city; and
    To view th' artillery and munition;

  STAFFORD. Villain, thy father was a plasterer;
    Which shallow laughing hearers give to fools.
    You that durst swear that your Mistress Blanca  
    Speak, gentle niece. What stern ungentle hands
    And the deep-drawing barks do there disgorge

  HOLOFERNES. Allons! we will employ thee.
    With such contempt? Made I him King for this?
    Would, by beholding him, have wash'd his knife
  Yet, that the world may witness that my end
    I moralize two meanings in one word.
  WARWICK. O passing traitor, perjur'd and unjust!
    fame for a pot of ale and safety.

  Osr. Of Laertes?

  RICHARD. I cannot joy until I be resolv'd
  MESSENGER. My lord, he doth deny to come.
    Gaunt am I for the grave, gaunt as a grave,
    Which honour and allegiance cannot think.
    Are bound to pray for you both.
  ALL. Caius Marcius Coriolanus!
  Mer. Why, is not this better now than groaning for love? Now art  
    what our sport shall be.               [They converse apart]
    Till then sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise,
    give the dozen white luces in their coat.
    But clay and clay differs in dignity,
    Whom, if he live, will scarce be gentlemen-
    These present wars shall find I love my country,

    Draws the sweet infant breath of gentle sleep;
    you in that kind, you know your answer.
  SECOND LORD. Sir, his wife, some two months since, fled from his
  SUFFOLK. I'll see it truly done, my Lord of York.
      for him  
  FALSTAFF. Fore God, a likely fellow! Come, prick me Bullcalf till
             For the rain it raineth every day.
    She's fled unto that peasant Valentine;
    As I intend more good to you and yours
    Have my old feet stumbled at graves! Who's there?
    And by our holy Sabbath have I sworn
    See what a rent the envious Casca made;
    Did never meddle with my thoughts.
      leave

Scene IV.
    Be bounteous at our meal.
    horses: the laws of England are at my commandment. Blessed are

    How he upbraids Iago, that he made him
    That led calm Henry, though he were a king,
    O, that a lady of one man refus'd
    I'll tell thee what befell me on a day
  DESDEMONA. What is your pleasure?
    payment-

  Laer. None but his enemies.
    But when he took a beggar to his bed
    would have it appear he is.
    That can assure my daughter greatest dower  
                                                    Exit Officer
    Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
    have any allegiance in them, being chosen for the Prince's watch.
     And the remainder that shall still depend
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What woman's man, and how besides thyself?

    I flam'd amazement. Sometime I'd divide,
    Are words and poor conditions, but unseal'd-
    A dozen captains stay at door for you.
    your worship to correct yourself, for the example of others.
    If their purgation did consist in words,
    Hath sent a letter to his father's house.
    Than what you look on now.
    More womanly than he; hardly gave audience, or
    From false to false, among false maids in love,
  Fal. I prithee, good Prince Hal, help me to my horse, good king's  
  ARVIRAGUS. 'Tis true.
    Order gave each thing view. The office did

    And on her withered dewlap pour the ale.
    To give thee all, and in his waning age
    Does yet depend.
  DECIUS. This dream is all amiss interpreted;
    Are stol'n away and fled, which puts upon them
    To thee the book even of my secret soul.
  GREMIO. What's that, I pray?
    Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
  PAROLLES. It lies in you, my lord, to bring me in some grace, for
    Our brother is imprison'd by your means,
SCENE 4.
    For, by my soul, were there worse end than death,
  Ham. I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
    Matter of marriage was the charge he gave me,
    Ever God bless your Highness!

    To wit, an indigest deformed lump,
    To leave this keen encounter of our wits,
    The private wound is deepest. O time most accurst!

  JESSICA. Past all expressing. It is very meet
    kill'd a sweet and innocent lady. For my Lord Lackbeard there, he
  FREDERICK. You are a fool. You, niece, provide yourself.
  FALSTAFF. How now! whose mare's dead? What's the matter?  
  VALENTINE. Forbear, forbear, I say; it is my lord the Duke.
    For I intend but only to surprise him.
    It must not be with this.
    In a sweet verbal brief it did concern

  HECTOR. Peace, sister, peace.
    With humble suit: no, rather let my head
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. Yes, that thou hast, whether thou art tainted or
    Mars what it does; yea, very force entangles
    My heart is heavy, and mine age is weak;
    Be here presented. Now we bear the King
    It shall be full of poise and difficult weight,
  AENEAS. My lord, you do discomfort all the host.
    Save our deposed bodies to the ground?  
                   CAESAR'S camp in Egypt
  SUFFOLK. And here I will expect thy coming.

    As, an't please heaven, he shall not -they should find
    We bodg'd again; as I have seen a swan
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  Edg. Chill pick your teeth, zir. Come! No matter vor your foins.
    All is well ended if this suit be won,
    Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease,
    celerity in dying.

  O lest the world should task you to recite,
    What o' that?
his Admiral call'd BOURBON; PRINCE EDWARD, QUEEN MARGARET,

        Enter CLEOPATRA, ENOBARBUS, CHARMIAN, and IRAS
    They should not laugh if I could reach them; nor
  Far more, far more, to you do I decline.
Enter a SCRIVENER
    afternoon, with a white head and something a round belly. For my
  DUKE. Unfit to live or die. O gravel heart!



    And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. God grant him health! Did you confer
    O, wither'd is the garland of the war,
  RODERIGO. With nought but truth. I have wasted myself out of my
    Mistress Ursula, whom I have weekly sworn to marry since I
    Making defeat on the fun power of France,
  ULYSSES. Know the whole world, he is as valiant.
    To lie like pawns lock'd up in chests and trunks,
  DOLL. Captain! Thou abominable damn'd cheater, art thou not ashamed
    Now thou and I are new in amity,
  BRABANTIO.                                    Ay, to me.
  If you will jest with me, know my aspect,
    Mort Dieu!
    Are all thy conquests, glories, triumphs, spoils,
  LAWYER. And so will I.
    old man, I will tell you news of your son. Give me your blessing;
  VIRGILIA. Indeed, madam?
    York set him on to fight and die in shame.
    Good Prudence. Smatter with your gossips, go!
    make us friends; I will pursue the amity
    A perilous knock; and it cried bitterly.
  NERISSA. The ancient saying is no heresy:
    Some five-and-twenty years, and then we mask'd.

    He smil'd me in the face, raught me his hand,
    That will be thaw'd from the true quality

    Vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself
    For what is in this world but grief and woe?
  LAFEU. Let us go see your son, I pray you;
    Set limb to limb, and thou art far the lesser;
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Nor I.
    From off the battlements of yonder tower,
  LONGAVILLE. This same shall go.          [He reads the sonnet]
  WINCHESTER. Do what thou dar'st; I beard thee to thy face.

  HOSTESS. Are you not hurt i' th' groin? Methought 'a made a shrewd
    Hero! why, Hero! Uncle! Signior Benedick! Friar!
    And lie full low, grav'd in the hollow ground.
    Thy friends suspect for traitors while thou liv'st,
    In pruning me? When shall you hear that I
  Rom. O blessed, blessed night! I am afeard,
ACT V. SCENE 7.
    Brainford?
  LUCIUS. This forwardness
  LUCIO. This is the rascal; this is he I spoke of.
  ULYSSES. He doth rely on none;
    No sun shall ever usher forth mine honours,
          Re-enter MARCIUS, bleeding, assaulted by the enemy
  Leon. She died, my lord, but whiles her slander liv'd.

  CLOWN. I' th' name of me!
    Never went with his forces into France
    And charges him, my lord, with such a time
  CLOTEN. If my shirt were bloody, then to shift it. Have I hurt him?
            Our fealty and Tenantius' right
  King. 'Tis Hamlet's character. 'Naked!'
    And bootless unto them.
    As I, thus wrong'd, hence unbelieved go!
    And cried 'Inestimable!' -why do you now
  MALVOLIO. My masters, are you mad? Or what are you? Have you no
  SECOND LORD. The swallow follows not summer more willing than we
  KING. Why, that to know which else we should not know.
    Led by the Dauphin.
  MESSENGER. They are return'd, my lord, and give it out


  MENENIUS. I mean thy general.
    Such temperate order in so fierce a cause,
    And say it is not so.
    That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
    After some respite will return to Calais;
  MARCUS. Stand by me, Lucius; do not fear thine aunt.
    More than your lord's departure weep not-more is not seen;
  MACBETH. [Aside.] The Prince of Cumberland! That is a step
    have our two wagers recorded.
    And till thou be restor'd thou art a yeoman.
    Like to a double cherry, seeming parted,
    That from this castle's tottered battlements
    Likely in time to bless a regal throne.


    When with his knees he kiss'd the Cretan strand.
  GREMIO. And may not young men die as well as old?
    But, soft! no bedfellow. O gods and goddesses!
    Prince Mamillius; it is a gentleman of the greatest promise that
    souls
  Lear. How now, daughter? What makes that frontlet on? Methinks you
  Bene. Only foul words; and thereupon I will kiss thee.
    Being o'er shoes in blood, plunge in the deep,
    Paris my lord, who is there in person; with him the mortal Venus,
    Arthur doth live; the King hath sent for you.
    With truant vows to her own lips he loves,
    Which I dispers'd, they all have met again,  
    Fear not, sweet wench; they shall not touch thee, Kate;
    For no dislike i' th' world against the person
    In honest plainness thou hast heard me say
  And do not drop in for an after-loss:
    Resolvedly more leisure shall express.
  Lear. Ha, ha, ha!
                      Enter LORD STANLEY
    When I was dry with rage and extreme toll,
    Or bring him in obedience to your yoke.
                     20
    Shak'd like a coward.
    rewarding my dependents. Moth, follow.                  Exit
                                          Exeunt DIOMEDES and CALCHAS
    Happily you may catch her in the sea;
    Then your hose should be ungarter'd, your bonnet unbanded, your
    Of whom, even to the state's best health, I have
  TAMORA. So should I rob my sweet sons of their fee;
  DEMETRIUS. Come, let us go and pray to all the gods
    That hugs his kicky-wicky here at home,
  Mer. Right.

    For then I pity those I do not know,
    If thou wert near a lewd interpreter!

  TIMON. Away! What art thou?
  MESSALA. Seek him, Titinius, whilst I go to meet
  

    Which parti-coated presence of loose love
    Madam, my mother, I do cry you mercy;
    To tell this tale of mine.
    That every day under his household roof
    And they have wish'd that Lucius were their emperor.
    The smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor,
  MESSENGER. An't like your Grace-
  EDWARD. Where is the Duke of Norfolk, gentle Warwick?
  FALSTAFF. Want no Mistress Ford, Master Brook; you shall
                                          [GUARDS seize BERTRAM]
  FALSTAFF. I bought him in Paul's, and he'll buy me a horse in
    Shall cross the seas and bid false Edward battle:
  WARWICK. Here comes the Prince.
    A blessed soul doth in Elysium.
    And when this arm of mine hath chastised
    Speaks his own standing! What a mental power
    Piteous predicament!
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Yea, dost thou jeer and flout me in the teeth?
    Here comes Patroclus.
  JULIA. No, girl; I'll knit it up in silken strings
  SICILIUS. Thy crystal window ope; look out;
             [The English scale the walls and cry 'Saint George!
    So all hail, Macbeth and Banquo!
  NESTOR. Tell him of Nestor, one that was a man
    familiarity will grow more contempt. But if you say
    That idles in the wanton summer air,
    there?
  FALSTAFF. What should this be?
    the wolf, thy greediness would afflict thee, and oft thou
    That murd'red me. I would forget it fain;  
    By help of her more potent ministers,
    Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
  PUCELLE. I think this upstart is old Talbot's ghost,
    priest; and I have appointed mine host of de Jarteer to
    'Tis like that Richmond with the rest shall down.
    bless mine ear withal but I will tell thee aloud 'England is
    How merited to be so; since he came,
  VALENTINE. And writers say, as the most forward bud
  REIGNIER. Welcome, brave Earl, into our territories;
    And yet as heavy as my weight should be.
    'Twere sure enough.
    little for pomp to enter. Some that humble themselves may; but
  VALENTINE. If it please me, madam, what then?
  BOLINGBROKE. Are you contented to resign the crown?
    But under heavy judgement bears that life
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. As long as hell and Richard likes of it.
    He serv'd with glory and admir'd success,
  ULYSSES. I do desire it.
    I pray you, will you take him by the arm?
    And like a bated and retired flood,
    That bloody spoil. Thou slave, thou wretch, thou coward!
    What said my man when my betossed soul
    take this hand from thy throat till this other had pull'd out thy
    Now lays upon you.
      And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
  DIANA. Because he's guilty, and he is not guilty.
  APPARITIONS
    a squire's child! Look thee here; take up, take up, boy; open't.  

  Poins. [within] Francis!
    He should have found his uncle Gaunt a father
    The business we have talk'd of.
  KING HENRY. Then gather strength and march unto him
LUCIANA. Ay me, poor man, how pale and wan he looks!
    The Cardinal Pandulph is within at rest,
  Past cure I am, now reason is past care,
    Well, somewhat we must do.-Come, cousin,
  PORTIA. First, forward to the temple. After dinner
    That I disdain; but for these other gawds,
    well bestowed.                                          Exit
    Brutus had rather be a villager
    In that he did the thing for which he died;
    I found a friend; and sure as death I swore  
  DUKE. O, you hope the Duke will return no more; or you imagine me
    By telling truth. Tell truth and shame the devil.
    marry me with Octavius Caesar, and companion me with my mistress.
    [To the POET] You are an alchemist; make gold of that.-
    I thank them for their tender loving care;
    To this my fair belov'd. Therefore, I pray you,
    Nor her, nor thee, nor any of thy stock.  
    Now, Thomas Mowbray, do I turn to thee,
    By any mark of favor.
    I will employ thee back again; I find thee
     Therefore great France
    So that between their tides and low name
                                                          Exeunt
    The sides o' th' world may danger. Much is breeding
    That reigns in galled eyes of weeping souls,

    Till painful study shall outwear three years,
    Presented thee more hideous than thou art.
    For to strange sores strangely they strain the cure.
'With other LORDS
    Rescued the Black Prince, that young Mars of men,

    And I'll be sworn I have power to shame him hence.
  Sometime a blusterer that the ruffle knew
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Whiles we shut the gate upon one wooer, another knocks at the
    How Troy was burnt and he made miserable?

    Though calved i' th' porch o' th' Capitol.
    He's traitor to th' height.                                Exeunt
     The trumpets sound, and the KING enters with his nobles,
  CORIN. Why, we are still handling our ewes; and their fells, you
  IAGO. My lord is fall'n into an epilepsy.
    To measure kingdoms with his feeble steps;
    From the rich Jew, a special deed of gift,
                          Enter CHARLES
    Deliver them this paper' having read it,

    Cannot distaste the goodness of a quarrel
    Say to great Caesar this: in deputation
    glory of the action; and not resting here, accuses him of letters
    I cannot blame them all: what is't to them?
    To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
    Their sons with arts and martial exercises;
    The fairest I have yet beheld- desires access
me. If the gentlemen will not, then the gentlemen do not agree with
    as they would have drown'd a blind bitch's puppies, fifteen
    Bett'ring thy loss makes the bad-causer worse;
    Tremble at patience. You, my lord, best know-
    I think my wife be honest, and think she is not;
    Shed for my thankless country, are requited

    Farewell!                                        Exit HELENA  
    This day I breathed first: time is come round,
  CLOWN. The more fool, madonna, to mourn for your brother's soul
    'I pray, sir'- Plague upon't! I cannot bring
    But, woe the while! Our fathers' minds are dead,
    In least speak most to my capacity.
    For he that holds his kingdom holds the law;
    upon the church bench till two, and then all to bed.
    Still betters what is done. When you speak, sweet,
    You must be gone from hence immediately.
    say that though she appear honest to me, yet in other
    them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goosequills and
     I will not speak with him. Say I am sick.
    a-birding; she desires you once more to come to her between
  TOUCHSTONE. By my knavery, if I had it, then I were. But if you
    Mine action and thine own? our horses' labour?
  PROSPERO. Look thou be true; do not give dalliance
    But with a baser man of arms by far
    Now, to our perjury to add more terror,
    The gentle Thetis, and anon behold
           The which he loved passing well.'

    But to the next high way, and there I left him.
    Let us survey the vantage of the ground.
    And call thy husband hither.
    Your breath with full consent benied his sails;
    Long after this, when Henry the Fifth,

Windsor. A street
    thy health; but, whilst I live, forget to drink after thee.
    Provided that, when he's remov'd, your Highness
  SUFFOLK. I wish your Highness
  KING HENRY. Poor queen! How love to me and to her son

    Thou gentle nymph, cherish thy forlorn swain.
    adoption of abominable terms, and by him that does me
    The which in every language I pronounce,
    silly-cheat. Gallows and knock are too powerful on the highway;
    Is the obedience to a master; one
    See him pluck Aufidius down by th' hair;
    cloths. As many as be here of pander's hall,
  CAESAR. You may be pleas'd to catch at mine intent
    When you are dead, you should be such a one
    That stops my way in Padua. Grumio,
             Enter Lucius with his weapon drawn
    Bestride our downfall'n birthdom. Each new morn
    Signifies that from you great Rome shall suck
  SIR WILLIAM BRANDON
    My queen, my life, my wife! O Imogen,
    eat and drink on my score, and I will apparel them all in one
    And very rich; but th'art too much my friend,
  LEONTES. Your actions are my dreams.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  CASSIO.            Ancient, what makes he here?
    So perfect and so peerless, are created
    That in a twink she won me to her love.
    I would be good to thee.
  LEONTES. Twenty-three days
  DUKE. For which I do discharge you of your office;
  Kent. What art thou that dost grumble there i' th' straw?
  Desiring this man's art, and that man's scope,
    Blind is his love and best befits the dark.
  DUMAIN. It is Berowne's writing, and here is his name.
    That, being of so young clays brought up with him,
  MARULLUS. Wherefore rejoice? What conquest brings he home?
    This visitation shows it.
  BRABANTIO.                   Why? Wherefore ask you this?

                  And I for sorrow sung,
    show 'em in deeds. They say poor suitors have strong breaths;
  SAY. The trust I have is in mine innocence,
SCENE II.
      Goneril, daughter to Lear.
    By heaven, I love thee better than myself,
    Being all descended to the labouring heart,
  PROSPERO. O, was she so? I must
    Lord Saturnine; whose virtues will, I hope,
    And by that fatherly and kindly power
     I have seen the day, with my good biting falchion
    fearful, that neither my coat, integrity, nor persuasion, can
  POSTHUMUS. Fear it not, sir; I would I were so sure
    Things done undone; but if he be at hand,
    And, were his daughter fairer than she is,
  GLOUCESTER. My masters of Saint Albans, have you not beadles in
    Are thrice themselves. Hence, therefore, thou nice crutch!
    A show of eight Kings, the last with a glass in his hand;
  2. Car. Peas and beans are as dank here as a dog, and that is the
  MARCUS. Perchance she weeps because they kill'd her husband;
  West. He is, Sir John. I fear we shall stay too long.
    So shall you share all that he doth possess,
  OTHELLO. Her father loved me, oft invited me,
     And meeting here the other messenger,
Flourish. Enter the FRENCH KING, the DAUPHIN, the DUKES OF BERRI
    I know this act shows horrible and grim.
Rouen. The FRENCH KING'S palace
    In one respect I'll thy assistant be;
    Which then most sought where most might not be found,
    Married to your good service, stay till death.
    Let's all cry, "Peace, freedom, and liberty!"
    This gallant Hotspur, this all-praised knight,
  CONSTANCE. O, take his mother's thanks, a widow's thanks,
    To tumble down thy husband and thyself
    Go with me, Silvius.                                  Exeunt
    feeding his own stomach. Besides, virginity is peevish, proud,
    Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
    that bolting hutch of beastliness, that swoll'n parcel of
    To go to bed. Upon my soul, my lord,
    France is revolted from the English quite,
  And says in him thy fair appearance lies.
    And time it is when raging war is done
    Can make good people.
  FERDINAND. Where should this music be? I' th' air or th'
    Provided that my banishment repeal'd
    For your own quiet as to rectify
    hither on my legs.
    Quite to forget this quarrel and the cause.
  AJAX. Toadstool, learn me the proclamation.
England. A castle
  IAGO. Before me! look where she comes.
  THERSITES. If I could 'a rememb'red a gilt counterfeit, thou
    Thou rather, with thy sharp and sulphurous bolt,
    So graze as you find pasture.
              Sennet. Exeunt Caesar and all his Train but Casca.
  AJAX. Therefore I beat thee.
  ANGELO. Hath he a sister?
  COUNTESS. It must be an answer of most monstrous size that must fit
    By any desperate change. My more particular,
  Thy love is better than high birth to me,
  JOHN MORTON, BISHOP OF ELY
  CLAUDIO. Perpetual durance?
    And pious action we do sugar o'er  
    I would not so!-and would no more endure
  ANTONIO. So please my lord the Duke and all the court
     Humanity must perforce prey on itself,
  For that deep wound it gives my friend and me;
    Your wisdom may inform you.
    I saw Othello's visage in his mind,
  Ham. I am glad to see you well.
    turn white; a curl'd pate will grow bald; a fair face will
    Do bravely, horse; for wot'st thou whom thou mov'st?
    call the rest of the watch together and thank God you are rid of
  ENOBARBUS. Fulvia?
    have quenched her love, hath, like an impediment in the current,
    I did not think thee lord of such a spirit.
    Am I the motive of these tears, my lord?
  Marg. God match me with a good dancer!
Music sounds within. Enter PANDARUS and a SERVANT

    That do contrive how many hands shall strike
    plentifully.
  For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    clothes? Say you see them not and think me still no gentleman
    And you, forsooth, had the good Duke to keep.
  BOYET. The pommel of Coesar's falchion.
     Sharp-tooth'd unkindness, like a vulture, here!
    The power of man, for none of woman born
    You make a leg, and Bolingbroke says ay.
    I have done all. Bid them all fly; begone.       Exit SCARUS
    is the humour of it.
    By this means shall we sound what skill she hath.
  SAY. You men of Kent-
  Forsooth, took on him as a conjurer,
  Corn. Thou art a strange fellow. A tailor make a man?
    Which when I saw rehears'd, I must confess,
    If thou canst like this creature as a maid,
    In such an honour; how may I deserve it,
    Your most sweet voices. Now you have left your voices,
    anything in this desert. Cheerly, good Adam!          Exeunt
    Enwheel thee round!
    And Sir John Stanley is appointed now
    Remote from all the pleasures of the world;
    My lord, you'll bear us company?
    lungs are tickle o' th' sere; and the lady shall say her mind
    I shall then have to prefer them, and the impediment most
    As tediously as hell, but flies the grasps of love  
    And Portia one, there must be something else
  DUKE.                          If you please,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    As Cerberus at the Thracian poet's feet.  
    Till the tree die!  
    From my great purpose in to-morrow's battle.
  OTHELLO.                   I am bound to thee forever.
  ALONSO. This is as strange a maze as e'er men trod;
    Hold, take my ring.
THE SECOND PART OF KING HENRY THE SIXTH
  That you are you, so dignifies his story.
    eagle's talent in the waist; I could have crept into any
  IMOGEN. To Milford Haven.
    How wise, how noble, young, how rarely featur'd,
    To the boy Caesar send this grizzled head,

    have, I am one that, telling true under him, must say you cannot
    I'd throw it down for your deliverance
    When he is here, even at thy solemn feast,
DUKE. Why, here begins his morning story right.
    That roars so loud and thunders in the index?
    With mirth and laughter let old wrinkles come;
  EMILIA. I know a lady in Venice would have walked barefoot to
    We and our wives and children all will fight
  CONSTANCE. Gone to be married! Gone to swear a peace!
The DUKE'S palace
    Sad tidings bring I to you out of France,
    Against the blood that thou hast married?

    as valiant as Hercules that only tells a lie,and swears it. I

    took a boy for a girl. If I had been married to him, for all
    And bashful Henry depos'd, whose cowardice
    you understand me?
    Sits on's horse back at mine hostess' door,
  SECOND LORD. He has much worthy blame laid upon him for shaking off
  that will have me.
ADRIANA. O husband, God doth know you din'd at home,
    And we his subjects, sworn in all allegiance,
    For husbands, fathers, and betrothed lovers,
    Inhabits our frail blood.
    idiot worshippers, here's a letter for thee.
    I must not have you henceforth question me
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    And comes not in, overrul'd by prophecies-
     And am fallen out with my more headier will,
    Anne Page: to know if it were my master's fortune to
    Whose pitchy mantle over-veil'd the earth.
    In few, they hurried us aboard a bark;
    Thou shalt have justice, more than thou desir'st.
    'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
    Of my Lord General.


    To breathe this news; yet what I say is true.
    What, are there no posts dispatch'd for Ireland?
    Deny us for our good; so find we profit
    And, in the last repeating, troublesome,
    Among the rout of nations, I will make thee
  Bar. Case ye, case ye! On with your vizards! There's money of the
    I am afraid to think what I have done;
    in foul way?
    Emilia, run you to the citadel,
    And, sith there's no justice in earth nor hell,
    We cannot deal but with the very hand
  FIRST WITCH. Thrice the brinded cat hath mew'd.
  CASSIO. O, help!
    fault!-and then another fault in the semblance of a fowl-
  GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS, sons to Cymbeline, disguised under the
  CLEOPATRA. Noblest of men, woo't die?  
    Made good guard for itself.
     This coronet part betwixt you.
  KING HENRY. We would have all such offenders so cut off. And we
    The honourable blood of Lancaster,
    I shall be well content with any choice
    you. Who goes there, ha?
  HELENA. And ever shall  

      'Silvia, this night I will enfranchise thee.'
    And fee my friends in Rome. O negligence,
    thus fubb'd as it is with the rusty curb of old father antic the
    there, before the whole congregation, shame her with what he saw  
    Thanks, courteous wall. Jove shield thee well for this!
  ANTONY. Hear me with patience.
    take them all; I'll answer the coinage. Bid my lieutenant Peto
    commonwealth, and turn it, and set a new nap upon it.
    But felt a fever of the mad, and play'd
  ANTONY. Ah, let be, let be! Thou art
    entertainment than yours. You are welcome. But my uncle-father
  ISABELLA. What is your will?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    One grave shall be for both. Upon them shall

    A good construction. I rais'd him, and I pawn'd
ACT II. PROLOGUE.

    Dare not relate.
    And angels offic'd all. I will be gone,
    roast your goose. [Knocking within.] Knock, knock! Never at
  SHEPHERD. You may say it, but not swear it.
  HOLOFERNES. Begin, sir; you are my elder.
    Are newly grown to love. The condemn'd Pompey,
    For doing these fair rites of tenderness.
  TITUS. A better head her glorious body fits
    I'll peck you o'er the pales else.                         Exeunt
  Rom. Swits and spurs, swits and spurs! or I'll cry a match.
    spoil of me.
  SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  I'll win this Lady Margaret. For whom?
    Shall witness to him I am near at home,
    will be King and Queen-save our Graces!-and Trinculo
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. His only child.
  GAUNT. Now He that made me knows I see thee ill;  
    Sir Toby the whilst.                                    Exit
    And let him sign it; we'll away tonight,
    On unreprievable condemned blood.
    Heard many grievous-I do say, my lord,
    Bid our commanders lead their charges off  
    not the gout; for the one sleeps easily because he cannot study,
  POLIXENES. Then make your garden rich in gillyvors,
  TROILUS. She was not, sure.
    Because he married me before to Romeo?

                    Enter Gloucester with a torch.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  Page. O Lord, they fight! I will go call the watch.
    Are counselors to fear. What soldiers, whey-face?
  DUCHESS. I had a Richard too, and thou didst kill him;
  CLOWN. Indeed, sir, she was the sweet-marjoram of the sallet, or,
    My lord. Griffith, farewell. Nay, Patience,
    Which calls me pupil or hath read to me?
    No word like 'pardon' for kings' mouths so meet.
    Burnt up those logs that you are enjoin'd to pile.

   The brightest heaven of invention,
    Go with the princes or stay here with us?
    The words would add more anguish than the wounds.
    Approv'd so to your Majesty, may plead
    What is the matter there?
    When his wife's dead; therefore I'll lie with him



    Unless the nightly owl or fatal raven.
    Thine enmity's most capital: thou bar'st us
    And heard thee murmur tales of iron wars,
  SIR TOBY. Come, Sir Andrew, there's no remedy; the gentleman will,
    That the united vessel of their blood,
    Was to be so unwise to be so kind.
    The money is paid back again.
    But jealous for they are jealous. 'Tis a monster
  LEONTES. No, not these twenty years.
  Might bear him company in the quest of him;
    her hands?
    Destruction fang mankind! Earth, yield me roots.
    Hear a foot fall; we now are near his cell.
ACT IV. SCENE 1.
  NYM. I cannot tell; things must be as they may. Men may sleep, and
  LEPIDUS. Your way is shorter;
    For I will slay myself.
  AUFIDIUS. Ay, Marcius, Caius Marcius! Dost thou think  
  SEBASTIAN. The old cock.
  COSTARD. No, sir; but it is vara fine,
    Look where the holy legate comes apace,
    Ah, wherefore dost thou urge the name of hands?
    She is the fairies' midwife, and she comes
  ARCHBISHOP. I do not doubt you.
    maid to answer 'Whoop, do me no harm, good man'- puts him off,
  CELIA. O, I have heard him speak of that same brother;
  Lords, Officers, Citizens, Boy, and Attendants
  NYM. I shall have my eight shillings I won of you at betting?
                        Exeunt all but BUCKINGHAM and GLOUCESTER
    Be the jacks fair within, the jills fair without, the carpets
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Ay, to a niggardly host and more sparing guest.
    easy when they are known. Call your executioner, and off with
    She'll be a soldier too, she'll to the wars.
    You'd venture an emballing. I myself
  AUTOLYCUS. Here's the midwife's name to't, one Mistress Taleporter,


  That 'gainst thy self thou stick'st not to conspire,
  MARCUS. Canst thou not guess wherefore she plies thee thus?  
Enter, in conquest, with Drum and Colours, Edmund; Lear and Cordelia
    Fellow, wilt thou bestow thy time with me?
  Oph. You are naught, you are naught! I'll mark the play.

           For beauty lives with kindness.
    That bear in them one and the self-same tongue
    Thou art poor'st of all; then shortly art thou mine.
    Outbrave the heart most daring on the earth,
      forgive me
  CASCA. A Roman.

  Claud. And I take him to be valiant.
  ULYSSES. Why 'tis this naming of him does him harm.
     must be relieved. There is some strange thing toward, Edmund.

  PERDITA. Ay, good brother, or go about to think.
  BOLINGBROKE. Withdraw yourselves, and leave us here alone.
  BELARIUS. O thou goddess,
    She shall pursue it with the soul of love.
    Was, were he evil us'd, he would outgo
    A happy and a joyful time of day!
  WARWICK. See how the blood is settled in his face.
    With looking on his life.
     Yet am I noble as the adversary  
                                                         Exeunt.
    In praises sauc'd with lies.
  BEROWNE. 'Did they?' quoth you. Who sees the heavenly Rosaline
    Before the birds have any cause to sing?
  LORD SCALES
     She have restrain'd the riots of your followers,  
    And is become the bellows and the fan
Scene II.
    And, as the world were now but to begin,
    Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled
    Than Bolingbroke to England. Lords, farewell.
  QUEEN. I wonder, Doctor,
  For why should others' false adulterate eyes

  The other two, slight air, and purging fire,
Enter the Archbishop of York and Sir Michael.
    [Then speaking small] 'Ah Pyramus, my lover dear! Thy
    Here lie I, Timon, who alive all living men did hate.
  EVANS.  [Aside to CAIUS]  Pray you, let us not be
  CLOWN. Has the old man e'er a son, sir, do you hear, an't like you,
  KING JOHN. What earthly name to interrogatories
    Think upon what hath chanced, and at more time,
    it.

  RATCLIFF. Most mighty sovereign, on the western coast
    word.
    Next, Your son gone, and he most violent author
    I' th' dungeon by a snuff?
    Send for the man, and ask him.  
  SILENCE. This Sir John, cousin, that comes hither anon about
    Without annoying me. And there were drawn
            MENENIUS, COMINIUS the Consul. SICINIUS and  
    And yet we hear no tidings from the King;
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  BAPTISTA. How likes Gremio these quick-witted folks?
  YORK. Thou canst not, son; it is impossible.
    The period of thy tyranny approacheth.
    However, yet there is no great breach. When it comes,

    As venerable Nestor, hatch'd in silver,
    Will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbours,
    The fourth son: York claims it from the third.
    That heaven and earth may strike their sounds together
    I cut them off; and had a purpose now
  TITUS. A reason mighty, strong, and effectual;
  THERSITES. E'en so; a great deal of your wit too lies in your
  GONZALO. If in Naples
  Feeling it break, with bleeding groans they pine,
    Forsooth, an inventory, thus importing
     If both remain alive. To take the widow
  ALENCON. Leave off delays, and let us raise the siege.
    Then thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.
    For private quarrel 'twixt your Duke and him,
    You stand within his danger, do you not?
  KING HENRY. Forbear to judge, for we are sinners all.
  IMOGEN. About some half-hour hence,
    When I was crown'd, I was but nine months old.
    So do the kings of France unto this day,  
    Your su'd-for tongues?

    That could conceive a gross and foolish sire
    They are all but stomachs and we all but food;
    Here didst thou fall, and here thy hunters stand,
    Fight closer or, good faith, you'll catch a blow.
  BEROWNE. False: we have given thee faces.
  
    When gouty keepers of thee cannot stand.

    And to be shortly of a sisterhood,
    Will issue out again and bid us battle;
  CLAUDIO. From too much liberty, my Lucio, liberty;
    watch.
     Half my love with him, half my care and duty.
    I never writ, nor no man ever loved.
  RICHARD. What, not an oath? Nay, then the world goes hard
    In her pavilion, cloth-of-gold, of tissue,
  Hot. Neither! 'Tis a woman's fault.
    Finely attired in a robe of white.  
  DION. If you would not so,
    That carries no impression like the dam.
    To say 'King Richard.' Alack the heavy day

                                                   [Strikes him]
         And merry larks are ploughmen's clocks;
    come forth?
  TIMON. Always a villain's office or a fool's.
    Which being sealed interchangeably
  BOLINGBROKE. My Lord Northumberland, see them dispatch'd.
    And is't not pity, O my grieved friends!
    It should be challeng'd.
  CELIA. That's no matter; the feet might bear the verses.
    How that the Cardinal did entreat his Holiness
  PROTEUS. Here's too small a pasture for such store of muttons.
  ANTONIO. A laughter.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Protector
    To our own selves bend we our needful talk.
    Of his superior, grows to an envious fever
    Thou has a grim appearance, and thy face
  OTHELLO.                      Behold, I have a weapon;

    my master, look you, for I keep his house; and I wash,
    So tell your cousin, and bring me word
  SEBASTIAN. Prithee say on.
    lewdly, given, he deceiveth me; for, Harry, I see virtue in his
    As it hath fated her to be my motive
    Rise, Richard, like a true Plantagenet,
    That shall fly with them; for many a thousand widows
  Bene. Why, that's spoken like an honest drovier. So they sell
    Caius Marcius Coriolanus.
    Sufficeth not that we are brought to Rome
    Believe me I do not believe thee, man;
    I have no power upon you; hers you are.
    To understand a law; to know the meaning
    He capers nimbly in a lady's chamber
    were fairies. See now how wit may be made a Jack-a-Lent
    Into this chiefest thicket of the park.
    Are lank and lean with thy extortions.
    orthography, as to speak 'dout' fine, when he should say 'doubt';
    The red rose and the white are on his face,
    By th' sure physician death, who is the key
    To match us in comparisons with dirt,
  CELIA. My father's love is enough to honour him. Enough, speak no
    Thus play I in one person many people,
    Not his that spoils her young before her face.
  FENTON. From time to time I have acquainted you

    The little number of your doubtful friends.
    To countenance this horror! Ring the bell.       Bell rings.
  That here and there his fury had committed.
  Nurse. No less? Nay, bigger! Women grow by men
    Stirr'd up by God, thus boldly for his king.
           Bobtail tyke or trundle-tall-
    For others' uses. Yet, 'tis the plague of great ones:
    This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.              Exit.
    'Twas said they saw but one, and no discerner
    Or as a moat defensive to a house,
    Which oft the ear of greatness needs must bear
  DUKE OF BOURBON                   THE CONSTABLE OF FRANCE
    Then, seeing 'twas he that made you to depose,
     Whilst I was big in clamour, came there a man,  
SCENE IV.

  KATHERINA. Where did you study all this goodly speech?
    Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep;
         The LORDS rise from table, with much adoring of
  WOLSEY. You have here, lady,
  Though thou repent, yet I have still the loss,
     are no moe than seven is a pretty reason.
    Even in the aim and very flash of it.
    your harmless fairy, monster.
    Of pell-mell havoc and confusion.
    The liquid drops of tears that you have shed
    whoremaster, that I utterly deny. If sack and sugar be a fault,
    As I am made without him, so I'll stand,
  GOWER. Captain Fluellen!
  FLUTE. O- As true as truest horse, that y et would never tire.
    justified in our loves; for indeed-
  ORLANDO. With no less religion than if thou wert indeed my
  BOLINGBROKE. Good aunt, stand up.
               Bed put forth with the body. Enter WARWICK
    master, and, in losing thy master, lose thy service, and, in
Enter TITUS ANDRONICUS, and his three sons, LUCIUS, QUINTUS, MARTIUS,
  POET. Good day, sir.

    They shall be fam'd; for there the sun shall greet them
    Shall make their harbour in our town till we
    So much as frown on you?
    Of all the wonders that I yet have heard,
                                                         Exeunt.
    heartbreak.
    Did march three Frenchmen. Yet forgive me, God,
    I' th' East my pleasure lies.
    an-ape to Anne Page.
    The acts commenced on this ball of earth.
  THERSITES, a deformed and scurrilous Greek
    Long withering out a young man's revenue.
     Dow'r'd with our curse, and stranger'd with our oath,
    Why, this is just
  LORDS. Hold, hold, hold, hold!
  BAPTISTA. O, O, Petruchio! Tranio hits you now.
    Self-love, my liege, is not so vile a sin
    And will that thou thenceforth attend on us.
    Fair Leda's daughter had a thousand wooers;
    to be pork-eaters, we shall not shortly have a rasher on the
  BRUTUS. He has no equal.
    in hanging, if I should be hang'd, I cannot imagine.
  Ant. If you go on thus, you will kill yourself,
    Even with the very comment of thy soul
    And telling me the sovereignest thing on earth

    Fit thy consent to my sharp appetite;
    But that my heart accordeth with my tongue,

  Hot. So far afoot, I shall be weary, love.
        Enter JAQUES and LORDS, in the habit of foresters
    Then tell us, shall your city call us lord
    It was my hint to speak- such was the process-
    For thus his royalty doth speak in me.
    Full of strange oaths, and bearded like the pard,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  LEONTES. To your own bents dispose you; you'll be found,
  AUTOLYCUS. I understand the business, I hear it. To have an open
    The dove, and very blessed spirit of peace-
    That to th' observer doth thy history
    Prizes of accident, as oft as merit;
  KING RICHARD. Whither you will, so I were from your sights.  
    Be ready, gods, with all your thunderbolts,
    He, on his right, asking a wife for Edward.
    Angelo; if for this night he entreat you to his bed, give him
    Shall be my friend again, and I'll be his.
  VARRIUS,       "    "    "  
    the very extremest inch of possibility; I have found'red nine
    According to my birth. What do you say?
    I know they are stuff'd with protestations,
    Against infection and the hand of war,
    In passion shook.
  OLIVER. And well he might so do,  
  BRUTUS. A soothsayer you beware the ides of March.
  CHARMIAN. Wrinkles forbid!
  STAFFORD. Herald, away; and throughout every town

     this, who yet is no dearer in my account. Though this knave came
  ROSALIND. Then there were two cousins laid up, when the one should
  GAUNT. But not a minute, King, that thou canst give:
    And out of my dear love I'll give thee more
  BUCKINGHAM. Madam, good hope; his Grace speaks
     That worthied him, got praises of the King
      When second husband let me be accurst!
    If by the way they be not fought withal.
  MONTANO.                        It were well
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    And he nor sees nor hears us what we say.
  Ham.   Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
    Than vainly longing. What we oft do best,
    As much as may be yielded to a man:  
          courteously to every suitor, a MESSENGER from
  EROS. What would my lord?
  CORIN. And how like you this shepherd's life, Master Touchstone?
     jail; from the loathed warmth whereof deliver me, and supply the
    To cry to th' sea, that roar'd to us; to sigh
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Whither away so fast?
    Appear'd to me last night; for ne'er was dream
    By message crav'd, so is Lord Talbot come.
     Kent! father! sisters! What, i' th' storm? i' th' night?
                     93
    you, which shall be yours in private. Your good voice, sir; what

  King. Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.

THE END
  BANQUO. As far, my lord, as will fill up the time
    what part a gentleman would see.
    Shall see thy virtue witness'd every where.
    Hath hurt me more than had he kill'd me dead;
                              [He and his forces enter the city]
  POSTHUMUS. This is her honour!
  Then beauteous niggard why dost thou abuse,
  Edg. I know thee well. A serviceable villain,
    Upon this blasted heath you stop our way
    So half my Egypt were submerg'd and made
    due.
    To think on this, and shall I lack the thought
    We must proceed as we do find the people.
    He is an usurer. Strike me the counterfeit matron:
    After some time, to abuse Othello's ear
    Now, my Lord Constable!
    Emptying our bosoms of their counsel sweet,
    The blood of malice in a vein of league,
  AARON. An if it please thee! Why, assure thee, Lucius,
    Flying for succour to his servant Banister,
  TROILUS. Sweet sir, you honour me.  
    Whilst I, by looking on the praise of him,

  BOTH.      All lovers young, all lovers must
  LUCIUS. Ay, my lord, an't please you.
    There be some women, Silvius, had they mark'd him
  Glou. No further, sir. A man may rot even here.  
  KING. Why art thou not at Windsor with him, Thomas?
    But bear it as our Roman actors do,
  DEMETRIUS, in love with Hermia
    Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will,
    How may I reverently worship thee enough?
    rest of the court can possibly devise.'
  TROILUS. It is.
  FLORIZEL. Apprehend

  THIRD GUARD. Nor any one.                         Exeunt guard
    For powers In Scotland; which, for divers reasons  
    Incurr'd a traitor's name, expos'd myself
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Black, fearful, comfortless, and horrible.
  CELIA. To seek my uncle in the Forest of Arden.
    To see perform'd the dreaded act which thou
  THIRD SOLDIER. Music i' th' air.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. A time, methinks, too short
  And in mine own love's strength seem to decay,
    But mine own safeties. You may be rightly just,
  SICINIUS. Peace!
    Athwart the sea. Behold, the English beach
  SECOND SOLDIER. Not I.                    [MARCIUS is shut in]
  Lear. No, lad; teach me.
  CRESSIDA. There is amongst the Greeks Achilles, a better man than
  PETRUCHIO. A combless cock, so Kate will be my hen.
  Marg. O illegitimate construction! I scorn that with my heels.
    Sky-planted, batters all rebelling coasts?
                       Re-enter MOTH with COSTARD
    Is term'd the civil'st place of all this isle.  

             For the rain it raineth every day.
  IAGO. But for a satisfaction of my thought;
    a greedy intention that the appetite of her eye did seem to
    When it was out-'Let me not live' quoth he
SCENE:
  ARTHUR. Alas, I then have chid away my friend!
Enter the LORD CHAMBERLAIN and LORD SANDYS
    And I will chain these legs and arms of thine
    That so my sad decrees may fly away
    And with some other business put the King

    anything which profess'd to make him rejoice; a gentleman of all
    Where thou wilt hit me dead?
                          and guides it with stumps, and writes]
    I carried from thee, dear, and my true lip
    Pray speak in English. Here are some will thank you,
    You'll serve another master. I look on you
    Labio and Flavio, set our battles on.
    Deals with our Cardinal; and, as I trow-
    shall tell you another tale, if matters grow to your
                                             [Gives the warrant]

     [Exit a Knight.] Where's my fool, ho? I think the world's
    Will I with wine and wassail so convince
  Queen. Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.  
    slander the Lady Hero; how you were brought into the orchard and
    With strife to please you, day exceeding day.
    None do you like but an effeminate prince,
    more remarkable in single oppositions. Yet this imperceiverant
    has sent your honour two brace of greyhounds.
            NESTOR, MENELAUS, and DIOMEDES, with lights
    Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
    a buff jerkin a most sweet robe of durance?  

  SILVIA. Ursula, bring my picture there.
    talk offend you, we'll have very little of it. Nay, friar, I am a

    Yet there's as little justice as at land.
    My reverence, calling, nor divinity,
    Their clearer reason. O good Gonzalo,
    Have got by the late voyage is but merely
  CATESBY. O, make them joyful, grant their lawful suit!
  Prince. These lies are like their father that begets them- gross as
    So thou, thy self out-going in thy noon:
  ANNE. Alas, I had rather be set quick i' th' earth.
  PAULINA. I am sorry for't.
    So we could find some pattern of our shame.  
    Which he counts but a trifle.
    To entertain the lag-end of my life
  That stays but till her owner comes aboard,
    I nothing but to please his fantasy.
    Three or four miles about; else had I, sir,
  Glou. What are you there? Your names?
    From weary wars against the barbarous Goths,
  PETRUCHIO. Peace, sirrah!
    Of parallels, as like Vulcan and his wife;

    Th' insatiate greediness of his desire,
  PORTIA. Tarry a little; there is something else.
    Famous Plantagenet, most gracious Prince,  
  AJAX. Troilus! thou coward Troilus!                            Exit
  BRUTUS. Lucius, a bowl of wine!                   Exit Lucius.
  PROVOST. Pray you do. [Exit SERVANT] I'll know
    Thou gav'st thine ears, like tapsters that bade welcome,
    To pluck away their power; as now at last
  VALENTINE. You have said, sir.
    Where'er I wander, boast of this I can:
  LUCIO. I was once before him for getting a wench with child.
  PRIAM. After so many hours, lives, speeches, spent,
    came beyond Eton, they threw me off from behind one of
  MESSENGER. Prepare you, lords, for Edward is at hand
    repair hither and say you are not fit.
    Your heart is burst, you have lost half your soul;
    And, on my trust, a man that never yet
     Let it stamp wrinkles in her brow of youth,
    The least a death to nature.
  TRANIO. Pardon me, sir, the boldness is mine own
  PRINCE. What say you, uncle?
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    My Lord of Suffolk, Buckingham, and York,
    I gave my love a ring, and made him swear
  CONSTABLE. I stay but for my guidon. To the field!

    Enthron'd i' th' market-place, did sit alone,
    Our children, and our sins, lay on the King!
     The country gives me proof and precedent
            You and you are sure together,

    The rarest of all women.
  LE BEAU. Why, this that I speak of.
    thing. The wills above be done, but I would fain die
  MAMILLIUS. Dwelt by a churchyard- I will tell it softly;
  DUKE. The contents of this is the return of the Duke; you shall
    During his power go sleep.
    The gods themselves do weep.
  CRESSIDA. What sneaking fellow comes yonder?
    Than stand uncover'd to the vulgar groom.

  MACBETH. We will speak further.
    Who sued to me for him? Who, in my wrath,
    His crest, that prouder than blue Iris bends.
    if it be my luck, so; if not, happy man be his dole! They

    That hath a mint of phrases in his brain;
    To mine own room again; making so bold  
    Elected him our absence to supply;
    As 'twere to banish their affects with him.
    For thou art fram'd of the firm truth of valour.
  Bene. Come, will you go with me?
  FALSTAFF. Let it do something, my good lord, that may do me good,
    And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
  AGUECHEEK. Or o' mine either?

  LEWIS. Then, England's messenger, return in post  
    With hasty Germans and blunt Hollanders,
    ashore at Windsor? How shall I be revenged on him? I

Friar Laurence's cell.
    To find his title with some shows of truth-
    That I might be the organ.
    To any pastime?
  SOOTHSAYER. None that I know will be, much that I fear may chance.
    It must be granted I am Duke of Lancaster.
     Which often leaves the history unspoke
  whatsoever a man denies, you are now bound to believe him.
  MACBETH. 'Tis better thee without than he within.
  EXETER. Here comes the Queen, whose looks bewray her anger.

    Your Grace shall well and quietly enjoy.
    He that shall live this day, and see old age,
London. The palace
    If thou wilt curse, thy father, that poor rag,
    Some of those branches by the Destinies cut;
  JESSICA. I will make fast the doors, and gild myself  
    Is not this suit of mine, that thou declare
    Of mere compassion and of lenity,
                     [She curtsies to the KING, and offers to depart]  
    experiment of his suspicion. But I am glad the knight is not
    To meet Mark Antony. Sirrah, Iras, go.
    Wherein thou seest me mask'd. For thy revenge
    O, she's rich in beauty; only poor
    And will not you maintain the thing you teach,
     He had no other deathsman. Let us see.
    I leave your Highness. Grandam, I will pray,

  CASSIUS. Cicero one!
    Plainly as heaven sees earth and earth sees heaven,
  Which parts the shore, where two contracted new,
  DIANA. No.

    his five wits went halting off, and now is the whole man govern'd
    And quickly will return an injury;
    Edward the Third, my lords, had seven sons;
    fellow! Go thy way, Hector! There's a brave man, niece. O brave
    And then I came away.  
    If they were his assistants, yea or no;
  OTHELLO. O, pardon me; 'twill do me good to walk.
  Yet fear her O thou minion of her pleasure,
    And copy of the father- eye, nose, lip,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Thou art sensible in nothing but
    coast on Wednesday the fourscore of April, forty thousand fathom
    May make against the house of Lancaster.
  KING. If he were living, I would try him yet-
  TIMON. Then I know thee not.
    Apt to be render'd, for someone to say
    their shoulders; met the jealous knave their master in the
  Leon. Brief, I pray you; for you see it is a busy time with me.
    He stretch'd him, and, with one hand on his dagger,
    For Christian service and true chivalry,
  BOLINGBROKE. Carlisle, this is your doom:
  HERALD. It is Othello's pleasure, our noble and valiant general,
  SALISBURY. Peace, son! And show some reason, Buckingham,
  ANGELO. I will bethink me. Come again to-morrow.
    Slink all away; leave their false vows with him,
  FRENCH KING. From our brother of England?
    To excuse the current of thy cruelty.
  Where is the thousand marks thou hadst of me?
    May fit us to our shape. If this should fall,
  Lear. Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain!
     nature finds itself scourg'd by the sequent effects. Love cools,

                    [To an asp, which she applies to her breast]

  Reg. Ingrateful fox! 'tis he.
    Thou can'st help time to furrow me with age,
    your own, and good night. Come, neighbour.
  CLEOPATRA. Here's sport indeed! How heavy weighs my lord!
    Which would have been as speedy in your end
    suit, unless you may be won by some other sort than your father's
  BOY. Father, I know; and oft have shot at them,
                                           DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO.
  SENATOR. Take the bonds along with you,
    whoreson smooth-pates do now wear nothing but high shoes, and
    Now, France, thy glory droopeth to the dust.            Exit  
                                     Exeunt GRATIANO and LORENZO
    Take our good meaning, for our judgment sits
    I'll tickle your catastrophe.
    I should not know you, Brutus. Dear my lord,
    You cannot with such freedom purge yourself
  Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,

    To fright you thus, methinks I am too savage;

  ARVIRAGUS. Be't so;
  Bene. That a woman conceived me, I thank her; that she brought me
    To make an earthquake! Sure it was the roar
    When returns Cranmer?
     That hath depriv'd me of your grace and favour;
   Turn him to any cause of policy,
    That only wounds by hearsay.
    Call up Lord Stanley, bid him bring his power.
    I was a chaste wife to my grave. Embalm me,
  PEDANT. My life, sir! How, I pray? For that goes hard.  
    shall flout me out of my calling.                       Exit
  LORDS. Amen!
  PARIS. Ay, good now, love, love, nothing but love.
    As to a lover's bed. Come, then; and, Eros,

    In your condemned seconds.                            Exeunt
  CHARMIAN. Why, madam?
    Let not our looks put on our purposes,
    say there's but five upon this isle: we are three of
    Which once discern'd shows that her meaning is
  WIDOW. I am her mother, sir, whose age and honour
    salve, sir, but a plantain!
    Against whose charms faith melteth into blood.
                  Re-enter BUCKINGHAM and the rest
    No worse than I, upon some agreement
    are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim
  CAESAR. Observe how Antony becomes his flaw,
    His love sincere, his thoughts immaculate,
  And all things turns to fair, that eyes can see!
    Unless by robbing of your friends and us.
                           Enter a Herald.
    Come on, brave soldiers; doubt not of the day,
    As soft as dove's down and as white as it,
      When daffodils begin to peer,
    Is your perfection. This is Timon's last;
    But he already is too insolent;
    And die with grieving.
    How I have ever lov'd the life removed,
  SPEED. 'Item: She brews good ale.'
    I give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange.

    he was to find fame. To a cruel war I sent him, from whence he
    Harry the Fifth's the man. I speak the truth.
    to London, where we will have the mayor's sword borne before us.
  MRS. PAGE. Truly, sir, to see your wife. Is she at home?
    Be now as prodigal of all dear grace
    Since we have locks to safeguard necessaries
    work.
ACT_3|SC_8
    Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar
    Of sprites and goblins.
  GRUMIO. Will he woo her? Ay, or I'll hang her.
     Been well inform'd of them, and with such cautions
  FIRST GUARD. Woe, woe are we, sir, you may not live to wear
  Ham. O, reform it altogether! And let those that play your clowns
  MOWBRAY. I think it is my Lord of Westmoreland.
    nose is in great indignation.
    That, in the rescue of Lavinia,
    But, notwithstanding, haste, make no delay;
    Then vail your stomachs, for it is no boot,
                            Exeunt QUEEN MARGARET and the PRINCE
    For taking so the head, your whole head's length.
  BRABANTIO. So let the Turk of Cyprus us beguile;
    My dismal scene I needs must act alone.
    Mighty and to be fear'd, than my condition,
  Which late her noble suit in court did shun,
  LAFEU. Then here's a man stands that has brought his pardon.
  YORK. I would, that I might thank you as you call me.
ACT I. SCENE I.
  What me your minister for you obeys  
    Commend them and condemn them to her service
  FREDERICK. Send to his brother; fetch that gallant hither.  
    asked him by any of the senators but they stand bald before him.


                 Enter a Messenger.
    For yet ere supper time must I perform  
    Durst I have done my will. O Cassius!

    As children from a bear, the Volsces shunning him.
    An o'erpress'd Roman and i' th' consul's view
  SICINIUS. Pass no further.
    And then to scape drowning thrice, and to be in peril of my life
    And yet thy tongue will not confess thy error.
    That, notwithstanding thy capacity
  CAESAR. There's the point.
    Not many moons gone by.
    He hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's bowstring, and the little

  To merchants, our well-dealing countrymen,
    Fast bind, fast find-  
    Of ten times double gain of happiness.
    Our hearts you see not; they are pitiful;
  Edm. My services to your lordship.
    Therefore, Caveto be thy counsellor.
    Our substitutes in absence well invested,
                    Enter SIR JOHN FASTOLFE
    Of officer and office, set all hearts i' th' state
    To leave a thousand-fold more bitter than
    a skirmish of wit between them.
    That Ancus Marcius, Numa's daughter's son,
    To watch the night in storms, the day in cold,
  JAQUES. I'll tarry no longer with you; farewell, good Signior Love.
    The hand could pluck her back that shov'd her on.
  CLEOMENES. The climate's delicate, the air most sweet,
    Is ruminated, plotted, and set down,
  FORD. Let it be so. Sir John,
  MACDUFF. How does my wife?
  Incertainties now crown themselves assured,

  Fool. Lear's shadow.
    Would he abuse the countenance of the king,
    By good Saint Alban, who said 'Simpcox, come,
Enter Othello.
  Thy merit hath my duty strongly knit;
    Rudesby, be gone!
  For all that beauty that doth cover thee,

  Guil. My lord, we were sent for.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    But tell the traitor in the highest degree
    As she that he hath stain'd?
    But for the certain knowledge of that truth
  PROSPERO. Come, with a thought. I thank thee, Ariel; come.
  FERDINAND. A thousand thousand!
    Beg at the gates like Tarquin and his queen.
  Ham. We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have you any
    his house on his head- a better jointure, I think, than you make
    'Tis so; and here's the ladder for the purpose.
    And cracking the strong warrant of an oath,
  PAROLLES. Commit it, Count.
    Who was in life a foolish peating knave.
  LAUNCE, the like to Proteus
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I, sir, am Dromio; command him away.
    'Tis nothing but some bond that he is ent'red into
  ANTONY. Well, my good fellows, wait on me to-night.
  SEBASTIAN. Claribel.
    And not to grace an awful princely sceptre.
    Against that great magician, damn'd Glendower,
  THIRD OUTLAW. No, we detest such vile base practices.
    Thou hast a better place in his affection

    Is found a truth now; for it grows again
    To seek new friends and stranger companies.
    That if King Lewis vouchsafe to furnish us
Verona. ANTONIO'S house

     But cozen'd and beguil'd.
  Some blessed power deliver us from hence!
        and BIANCA; GREMIO, a pantaloon; HORTENSIO,
    These hands are not more like.
    Their iron indignation 'gainst your walls;
    Sweeten the bitter mock you sent his Majesty,
    Pawn me to this your honour, she is his.
    profession; one would think it were Mistress Overdone's own
    With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
    To give our hearts united ceremony.
    My widow-comfort, and my sorrows' cure!                      Exit
  SOLDIER. While he was yet in Rome,
  That he did buffet thee, and in his blows
    Before the sun shall see's, we'll spill the blood
    On the opposer.
    remainders and a perpetual succession for it perpetually.
    To sit here at this present, and behold
    A green goose a goddess- pure, pure idolatry.
    Th' have not prepar'd for us.
    Took once a pliant hour, and found good means
    When my good falcon made her flight across  
  HOSTESS. By my troth, this is the old fashion; you two never meet
    In carrion flies than Romeo. They may seize

    thirst for revenge.
  COUNTESS. May the world know them?
  Dog. If you meet a thief, you may suspect him, by virtue of your
  DESDEMONA. Come on, assay- There's one gone to the harbor?
    No, this thrice-worthy and right valiant lord
  PUCK. Vile worm, thou wast o'erlook'd even in thy birth.
    your Grace.
  TIMON. Come not to me again; but say to Athens

  CADE. For our enemies shall fall before us, inspired with the
    The better part of my affections would
    King's? Ah, thou honey-seed rogue! thou art a honey-seed; a
    Broken his staff of office, and dispers'd
     Whereto our health is bound. We are not ourselves
    sovereignty.
    Before you answer Warwick. His demand
  DUCHESS. Welcome, my son. Who are the violets now

  FIRST LORD. And how mightily some other times we drown our gain in
  Lear. Where have I been? Where am I? Fair daylight,
    God shield you mean it not! 'daughter' and 'mother'
  Ham. As woman's love.
    Then shall I swear to Kate, and you to me,
    Why I should welcome such a guest as grief,
    Cry.  
    Do not muse at me, my most worthy friends.
    Yet who's so bold but says he sees it not?
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    They shoot but calm words folded up in smoke,
                         INDUCTION.
    Whose music, to my thinking, pleas'd the King.  
    Be ready, as your lives shall answer it,
    Think therefore on revenge and cease to weep.



  Dog. We will spare for no wit, I warrant you. Here's that shall  
    But, let them measure us by what they will,
  CAMILLO. Be it forbid, my lord!

    Which is too nigh your person. Heaven preserve you!  
  As interest of the dead, which now appear,
    you into a butterwoman's mouth, and buy myself another of
  So dost thou too, and therein dignified:
    To keep the horsemen off from breaking in.
  Blunt. So hath the business that I come to speak of.
    My lords, if not for any parts in him-
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Did not her kitchen-maid rail, taunt, and scorn me?
    Look whe'er he have not crown'd dead Cassius!  

    Some hangman must put on my shroud and lay me
  Bene. Soft and fair, friar. Which is Beatrice?
    bellows-mender! Snout, the tinker! Starveling! God's my life,

    you there.                                Exit with SOLDIERS
    Blind with the pin and web but theirs, theirs only,
    Coin words till their decay against those measles
    So shall I no whit be behind in duty
  TROILUS. Let me read.
    To tell this story, that you might excuse
  CASSIUS. Will you dine with me tomorrow?
  Prince. Ned, prithee come out of that fat-room and lend me thy hand
    staggering, take this basket on your shoulders. That done,
    Is't not enough thou hast suborn'd these women
    ever I satisfied man, and you shall be married to-morrow. [To
    Weigh oath with oath, and you will nothing weigh:
    piety, as shall be prov'd upon thee by good witness. I am a wise
  DUKE. What pleasure was he given to?
                               Exeunt ELBOW, POMPEY and OFFICERS

    His mother was a witch, and one so strong
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  North. Why, what a wasp-stung and impatient fool
  In me thou seest the twilight of such day,
  Fal. Are not you a coward? Answer me to that- and Poins there?
  Dog. Five shillings to one on't with any man that knows the
    Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear.
  MARCIUS. I'll buy him of you.

    As with a saint.
    And jewels- two stones, two rich and precious stones,
                           Exeunt Othello, Desdemona, and Attendants.
  CORIOLANUS. What's the matter?
  When the sweet breath of flattery conquers strife.

  IAGO.                                  No, let me not.
    You could not with more tame a tongue desire it.
     Speak.
    Press not a falling man too far! 'Tis virtue.
    My dear wife's estimate, her womb's increase
  Rom. Give me a torch. I am not for this ambling.

    One, Richard Earl of Cambridge, and the second,
    Have made them mules, silenc'd their pleaders, and
                                                     Exit FABIAN
    But such an honest chronicler as Griffith.
  AUMERLE. Who sets me else? By heaven, I'll throw at all!
     And clamour moisten'd. Then away she started
  Claud. Now you talk of a sheet of paper, I remember a pretty jest
    for the party that owed it, he might have moe diseases than he
    That want their leader, scatter up and down
    Perforce must move. My gracious lord! my father!
    Will creep in service where it cannot go.
  I summon up remembrance of things past,
  AGUECHEEK. Plague on't; an I thought he had been valiant, and so
  BURGUNDY. Either she hath bewitch'd me with her words,
    Those heavenly eyes that look into these faults
  FRENCH HERALD. You men of Angiers, open wide your gates
    on Monday night which he forswore on Tuesday morning. There's a
the two CARDINALS sit under him as judges. The QUEEN takes place
                      Enter Prologue.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    If you contend, a thousand lives must perish.
    The truth is, she and I, long since contracted,
  SECOND CITIZEN. You shall ha' it, worthy sir.
    Why I should yield to thee.
  MACBETH. There's one did laugh in 's sleep, and one cried,
    And on that day at noon whereon he says
    To call them woollen vassals, things created
Camp near Tamworth
       Enter, in mourning habits, VIRGILIA, VOLUMNIA, VALERIA,
  SALISBURY. If that it be the work of any hand!
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Receiving nought by elements so slow,
    That this distempered messenger of wet,
    not.
  CALIBAN. Lo, lo again! Bite him to death, I prithee.

  Suff'ring my friend for my sake to approve her.
    When thou shalt tell the process of their death.  
  Lear. O vassal! miscreant!
    How now, good Blunt? Thy looks are full of speed.
SCENE V.
  Ben. She will endite him to some supper.

    will beget a thousand: here will be father, godfather,  
London. The palace
    Of England's true-anointed lawful King.
    Thou hadst a Richard, till a Richard kill'd him.
    For he is, sure, i' th' island.  
    When the sun sets, who doth not look for night?
    And then our arms, like to a muzzled bear,
SCENE 3.
    And kneel for grace and mercy at my feet;
    No, no, my lord, your Grace is perjur'd much,
  PAROLLES. I shall report it so.
    And every true heart weeps for 't. All that dare

  Nor ever didst thou draw thy sword on me;
    The goats ran from the mountains, and the herds
    Honour and policy, like unsever'd friends,
    The fair Ophelia!- Nymph, in thy orisons
     Sepulchring an adultress. [To Kent] O, are you free?
    Though in some part enforced to digress,
  BEROWNE. And what to me, my love? and what to me?
    To haste unto your coronation,
    a good moon-calf.
    Writing their own reproach; to whose soft seizure
    Without more mercy, to it own protection
    It helps not, it prevails not. Talk no more.
    With rigorous hands; he hath resisted law,
    but not to the purpose. Signior Romeo, bon jour! There's a French
    According to your ladyship's impose,
    Encourage him, and tell him all our reasons;
  ORLANDO. Then but forbear your food a little while,
    King Philip, determine what we shall do straight.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    stope of wine, and here without are a brace of Cyprus gallants
            That he deserv'd the praise o' th' world
  Gon. Do you mark that, my lord?
    hand of the most beauteous Lady Rosaline.' I will look again on
    Were't not all one an empty eagle were set
  CLOTEN. Thou villain base,
    And whilst I at a banquet hold him sure,
    When at Philippi he found Brutus slain.

  ESCALUS. Thank you, good Pompey; and, in requital of your prophecy,
    The beauty that is borne here in the face
    Pity was all the fault that was in me;
                                                   [They fight.]
    To excuse their after wrath. Husband, I come.
  Slandering creation with a false esteem,
     We'll no more meet, no more see one another.
     I would prefer him to a better place!
  SHALLOW. He is the wiser man, Master Doctor: he is a curer  
  ANGELO. What are you, sir?
  CLAUDIO. The precise Angelo!
  For never-resting time leads summer on
  Osw. I am none of these, my lord; I beseech your pardon.
  SICINIUS. Where is he, hear you?
     Hearing of this.
    Wishers were ever fools. O come, come,
    Come, I will bring thee to thy bridal chamber.        Exeunt

  YORK. Will you we show our title to the crown?
     Thy tender-hefted nature shall not give
    dost thou mean? Is it a world to hide virtues in? I did think, by

    The favours of these men. Were they not mine?
    How novelties may move, and parts with person,
    At his distemp'rature.
    They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
  QUEEN KATHARINE. How now?
    Should breed thy fellow. Friends, I owe moe tears
  CHARLES. What she says I'll confirm; we'll fight it out.
    Thou hast no figures nor no fantasies,
    He begg'd of me to steal it.
  HELENA. Never did mockers waste more idle breath.
    Himself a king.
                                    [He opens the silver casket]  
                          [PROSPERO and ARIEL remain, invisible]
    Both now and ever bless her! 'Tis a girl,
    They say, is shamefully bereft of life.
  KING. How know'st thou this?
    denying me a kiss; therefore, patiently and yielding.  [Kissing
    Receiv'd a second life; and second father  
    I kill'd not thee with half so good a will.            Dies.


    It is to you, good people, that I speak,
  CLEOPATRA. My master and my lord!
  Worthy perusal stand against thy sight,
    Your high displeasure. All this- uttered
    answer to what I shall ask you out of a note.

Enter GOWER and WILLIAMS
    Do thou so much as dig the grave for him.
    And with the southern clouds contend in tears-
    That it shall render vengeance and revenge
    Bespoke him thus: 'Contaminated, base,
  CLOWN. Shall I bring thee on the way?
A prison
    No more than he'll unswear.  
  TIMON. First mend my company: take away thyself.
  Lord. The Queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to
    Which I could fancy more than any other.
    I need no more weight than mine own bowels. I have led my
     And put upon him such a deal of man  
    Dear nurse of arts, plenties, and joyful births,
  Kent. Well, sir, I'll bring you to our master Lear
    I mean that married her, alack, good man!
    name.
    travel for it too.
  Lear. Come, let's in all.
    I well might hear, delivered with a groan,
  LEPIDUS. I must not think there are
    As far as toucheth my particular,
    mark the moan she makes. Now the dog all this while sheds not a
  QUICKLY. A softly-sprighted man, is he not?
  RIVERS. Were you well serv'd, you would be taught your
                                   in every corner of the stage]
    scurvy valiant ass! Thou art here but to thrash Troyans, and thou
  Bene. Lady Beatrice, have you wept all this while?
    Some men are much to blame.

    To pardon Mutius and to bury him.
    Then call'd you for the l'envoy.  
    Go seek him; tell him I would speak with him.
  TAMORA. Empress I am, but yonder sits the Emperor.
                      Re-enter MARCIUS, cursing
    her not?
  HOST. Here, boys, here, here! Shall we wag?
  DOCTOR. Not so sick, my lord,
    You fled for vantage, every one will swear;
  JULIA.  [Aside]  If 'twere a substance, you would, sure, deceive it
    What God will have discovered for revenge.
  CAESAR. Stand you directly in Antonio's way,
       his staff with a sand-bag fastened to it; and at the
    Your mariners are muleteers, reapers, people
    that fardel, the place of your dwelling, your names, your ages,

  QUEEN KATHARINE. Take thy lute, wench. My soul grows
    Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased,
    Have been mine so that evermore they pointed
                                                   [Exit Peter.]

    Are you a suitor to the maid you talk of, yea or no?
  LUCETTA. Nay, I was taken up for laying them down;
    Should I have answer'd Caius Cassius so?
  And the great care of goods at random left,
  MARGARET. That for thyself, I will not so presume
    French quarrels enow, if you could tell how to reckon.
  PAGE. Here, noble lord; what is thy will with her?
  LYSANDER. One turf shall serve as pillow for us both;
    As many lines close in the dial's centre;
    Were to remember that the present need

    By some illusion see thou bring her here;
    Of many in the army. Many years,
    What art thou? and how comest thou hither,

  Clown. E'en that.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  For thou art so possessed with murd'rous hate,
    In this I bury all unkindness, Cassius.              Drinks.
    Well, I will arm me, being thus forewarn'd.
  Hor. My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
    The fit is momentary; upon a thought
  ESCALUS. Nine! Come hither to me, Master Froth. Master Froth, I
    My uncle?
    I will assume desert. Give me a key for this,
  CLIFFORD. Ay, to such mercy as his ruthless arm
    And give it Timon, why, the dog coins gold.
    As to annoy us all, which to prevent,
  LADY MACDUFF. Ay, that he was.
    From his deep chest laughs out a loud applause;
    Pray you, let Cassio be received again.
    fingers. Therefore he that cannot lick his fingers goes not with
  Within this hour it will be dinner-time;
    making of Christians will raise the price of hogs; if we grow all
  SENATOR. Get on your cloak and haste you to Lord Timon;
    her. Now he thanks the old shepherd, which stands by like a
                 True delight
    Your mother well hath pray'd, and prove you true.
    it.
    By marrying her which I must reach unto.
    charge, that you swerve not from the smallest article of it,

  Poins. Down fell their hose.
    Than with your weapons.
    case as mine a man may strain courtesy.
     Out, varlet, from my sight!
    Or let me die, to look on death no more!
    Then, Angelo, thy fault's thus manifested,
    You do their work, and they shall have good luck.
    Something too liberal. Pray thee, take pain
    No mournful bell shall ring her burial;
  MALVOLIO. Mistress Mary, if you priz'd my lady's favour at anything
  Ham. Buzz, buzz!
    To be your prisoner should import offending;
                          Enter a POST
THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR
    Marian, I say! a stoup of wine.
  VIRGILIA. I thank your ladyship; well, good madam.
    To you your father should be as a god;
  Fal. Well said, Hal! to it, Hal! Nay, you shall find no boy's play
  QUICKLY. This is my doing now: 'Nay,' said I 'will you cast
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Only for praise; and praise we may afford
    I had rather be alone.
    For suffering so the causes of our wreck.
    With all the cunning manner of our flight,
    Are they not but in Britain? I' th' world's volume
  QUEEN. [Reads] 'To my Lord Protector!' Are your supplications to  

    for their bareness, I am surd they never learn'd that of me.
    ox and ass. To be a dog, a mule, a cat, a fitchew, a toad, a
  KATHARINE. No? Saw you not, even now, a blessed troop
  APEMANTUS. This is in thee a nature but infected,
    But I'll endeavour deeds to match these words,
    Into th' abysm of hell. If he mislike

    Answering before we do demand of them.

  GUIDERIUS. No exorciser harm thee!
    Your sword or mine, or masterless leaves both  
    Being an ordinary inundation;
    What colour are your eyebrows?  
    The clouds methought would open and show riches
    Be Mowbray's sins so heavy in his bosom
    Fleeter than arrows, bullets, wind, thought, swifter things.
    Here is a touch; is't good?
  NATHANIEL. Laus Deo, bone intelligo.
           Come, buy of me, come; come buy, come buy;
  MARCIUS. I thank you, General,
    ten pounds.
  LONGAVILLE. I'll stay with patience; but the time is long.
  WARWICK. Ay, but he's dead. Off with the traitor's head,
    Approve their truth by Troilus, when their rhymes,
  PROSPERO.  [Aside]  Praise in departing.  
    And let me see thee in thy woman's weeds.
  OLIVER. Good Monsieur Charles! What's the new news at the new
  YORK. If 'twere not she, I cannot tell who told me.  
  Whence hast thou this becoming of things ill,
    With aptness of the season; make denials  
    Too much hair there, but in a semicircle
  CLARENCE. What would my lord and father?
     That yet you do not know. Fie on this storm!
    Will knit and break religions, bless th' accurs'd,
    The credit that thy lady hath of thee
  PAROLLES. I'll about it this evening; and I will presently pen
    So cries a pig prepared to the spit.
  KATHERINA. There is, there is.
    Give scandal to the blood o' th' Prince, my son-
    Until his very downfall in the sea.
Enter SEMPRONIUS and a SERVANT of TIMON'S
    O Lord! my boy, my Arthur, my fair son!

  Prince. Ay, and mark thee too, Jack.
    The death of Cassio to be undertook
  Greg. The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.  
  FLUTE. If he come not, then the play is marr'd; it goes not
    dilemma.
    That your poor friends must woo your company?
    suffer'd to bring this woman to evil for your good. Being
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
     My father, poorly led? World, world, O world!
    To tell them that this world did equal theirs
    Come away, servant; come; I am ready now.
Enter JOHN OF GAUNT, sick, with the DUKE OF YORK, etc.
  SOLANIO. And Shylock, for his own part, knew the bird was flidge;
  Marg. Well, an you be not turn'd Turk, there's no more sailing by
  Commit to these waste blanks, and thou shalt find
    Morocco, who brings word the Prince his master will be here
  Corn. True or false, it hath made thee Earl of Gloucester.
  Rom. For your broken shin.  
               Enter VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, and VALERIA
  ANTONIO, a sea captain, friend of Sebastian

    Which, howsoever rude exteriorly,
  KATHERINA. The more my wrong, the more his spite appears.
    The smallness of a gnat to air, and then
  CHIRON. Belike, for joy the Emperor hath a son.
  King. 'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
    That which t' appear itself must not yet be
    And of a lovely boy. The God of Heaven
  Lear. Say, how is that?
    Finds bottom in th' uncomprehensive deeps;

    That did the latest service to my master.
    Is Antony again, I will be Cleopatra.
                      Re-enter SALISBURY
  Who, wanting guilders to redeem their lives,
 Exit
  CYMBELINE. Thou art welcome, Caius.
    The bell then beating one-
    Of Antony's death.                            [Kills himself
  POSTHUMUS. Nay, do not wonder at it; you are made  
    discretion.
  TIMON. If I name thee.
    And with a heart new-fired I follow you,
  CRESSIDA. No, I'll be sworn.
    Which I do owe you.
    And let us all to meditation.                         Exeunt
    and inconstant, and mutability, and variation; and her foot, look
    If thou dost break her virgin-knot before
    A thing most brutish, I endow'd thy purposes
  ANTONIO. The gentleness of all the gods go with thee!
  VIOLA. My matter hath no voice, lady, but to your own most pregnant
                         Enter SPEED
                                                      [Sound trumpet]

    your Grace is too costly to wear every day. But I beseech your
  HELENA. I especially think, under Mars.
                           [PISTOL and Nym sheathe their swords]


    Sit down, for thou must now know farther.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Come, to our pavilion. Boyet is dispos'd.

    Hearing so much, will speed her foot again,
  SENATOR. Go.                                            Exeunt
    Forthwith from Ludlow the young prince be fet
    Vailing her high top lower than her ribs
    Had he done so to great and growing men,
  GLOUCESTER. O, do not swear, my lord of Buckingham.
    the controversy bleeding, the more entangled by your hearing. All
    And the remembrancer of her to hold
    As Ovid be an outcast quite abjur'd.
  PROSPERO. This was well done, my bird.
    The love I bore your queen- lo, fool again!
    To eke it, and to draw it out in length,
    And rail'd on Lady Fortune in good terms,
    And I to be a corporal of his field,
    Good my mouse of virtue, answer me.
                         Enter Juliet.
  Glou. Away, get thee away! Good friend, be gone.
Enter the BASTARD and HUBERT, severally
    You'll give me leave to spare when you shall find
Polonius, Laertes and his sister Ophelia, [Voltemand, Cornelius,]
  TITUS. So is theirs and ours.
  CHARLES. Is this thy cunning, thou deceitful dame?
    For, being not mad, but sensible of grief,
    (Exit Boy.) I do much wonder that one man, seeing how much
  Lear. Why, thou wert better in thy grave than to answer with thy
    Who can accuse me? Wherein am I guilty?
  OLIVER. By and by.
    Chief architect and plotter of these woes.
    By this white glove- how white the hand, God knows!-
    A prince most prudent, of an excellent
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    The beggar native honour.
    That sold'rest close impossibilities,
    And say 'To-morrow is Saint Crispian.'
  SECOND LORD. [Aside] As many inches as you have oceans.

  MARCUS. O heavens, can you hear a good man groan
    My name be blotted from the book of life,  
    to stand for him.
    And pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell  

    that I have purchased at an infinite rate, and that hath
  GLOUCESTER. My dagger, little cousin? With all my heart!
    Have nick'd his captainship, at such a point,
    Be friends awhile, and both conjointly bend
  CLARENCE. Didst thou not hear me swear I would not do it?
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    To be new varnish'd! Well, but to my choice.
    As they have often given. Here is Ulysses.
  LUCIUS. What a strange case was that! Now, before the gods, I am
    Methinks thou speak'st not well. How long is't since?
    Yet speaks, and peradventure may recover.
  BOTTOM. Truly, a peck of provender; I could munch your good dry
     Sit you too.

    And reason says you are the worthier maid.
                                                         Exeunt.
    too too vain; but we will put it, as they say, to fortuna de la
  ENOBARBUS. Your presence needs must puzzle Antony;
                        Enter MISTRESS OVERDONE
                             Enter SERVILIUS
                     Song.
    You shall be mistress, and command him wholly.
    And make thy weapon drop.
    Sit, cousin Percy; sit, good cousin Hotspur,
    But to fine issues; nor Nature never lends
  GRATIANO. This is Othello's ancient, as I take it.
    Which is it, girl, of these?- Open them, boy.-
  Hot. He shall be welcome too. Where is his son,
    Take it on her. Camillo and Polixenes
    Cannot my body nor blood sacrifice
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  ARTEMIDORUS, a teacher of rhetoric
    Frenchman to-morrow; or in the shape of two countries at once, as
      he were dead. [Exit Douglas.] The Prince killeth Percy.

    And, where I thought the remnant of mine age  
  DUKE. You do but lose your labour.
  ANTONY. What power is in Agrippa,
  ANTONY. This was the noblest Roman of them all.
    O then, tread down my need, and faith mounts up:
    Must I be comforted, not in his sphere.
          Of dumps so dull and heavy!
    Fools on both sides! Helen must needs be fair,
    Keep in a little life? Poor Jack, farewell!
    To the court of his eye, peeping thorough desire.
  Wherein it finds a joy above the rest,
    His fears were that the interview betwixt

Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.

    Dexterity so obeying appetite
CASSIUS. This, Casca; this, Cinna; and this, Metellus Cimber.
  Hor. Very well, my lord.
    Thou't not believe thy deeds; but I'll report it
    to retire, and the Duke of Exeter is master of the pridge; I can
    And what is Edward but a ruthless sea?
    Crier Hobgoblin, make the fairy oyes.
    Thy beagles with thee.
Alarums. Enter KING JOHN and HUBERT
    You would have bid me argue like a father.
  DIANA. Good mother, fetch my bail. Stay, royal sir;
    soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to
SECOND MERCHANT. Yes, that you did, sir, and forswore it too.
    Is valour misbegot, and came into the world
    Suppose th' ambassador from the French comes back;
    That beats upon the high shore of this world-
    Thy burning car never had scorch'd the earth!
  3. Watch. Here is a friar that trembles, sighs, and weeps.
    Th' harmony of their tongues hath into bondage
    And takes him by the beard, kisses the gashes
    Believe me, you are marvellously chang'd.
    May sweep to my revenge.
                     fall on their knees
  MARIANA. Gentle my liege-                           [Kneeling]
    mistress. Thou prat'st and prat'st; serve with thy trencher;
    Such as move men; beside, she hath prosperous art
    Which ever has and ever shall be growing,
  Corn. This is some fellow
    That I, the son of a dear father murther'd,
    Within the volume of which time I have seen
    Bring up your army; but I think you'll find
    France is a bawd to Fortune and King John-
    I will assume thy part in some disguise
                            Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern]
    That you a world of curses undergo,

  
    thou, for that I insinuate, that toaze from thee thy business, I
    Thus most invectively he pierceth through
    piteous cry of the poor souls! Sometimes to see 'em, and not to  
  Alb. I cannot be so partial, Goneril,
                                Exeunt LUCILIUS and OLD ATHENIAN
    Look where thy love comes; yonder is thy dear.
  CONSTANCE. That which upholdeth him that thee upholds,
    Till we serve you; but when you have our roses

  AUMERLE. Yea, at all points; and longs to enter in.
    And what say you to this? Percy, Northumberland,
  AARON. If there be devils, would I were a devil,
    With fame, a name to Caius Marcius; these
    Your brother- no, no brother; yet the son-
    Thy noble deeds as valour's monuments.
  PERCY. I had thought, my lord, to have learn'd his health of you.
  Not making worse what nature made so clear,
  YORK. Grandam, one night as we did sit at supper,
     daughter I would speak with her. [Exit Knight.] Go you, call
    Is true as steel. Leave you your power to draw,
    Doth ill deserve by doing well; what's worse-
    And show'd thou mak'st some tender of my life,
    you like well and bear your years very well. Welcome, good Sir
  TOUCHSTONE. Truly, the tree yields bad fruit.
    you will go, I will stuff your purses full of crowns; if you will
    Jack hath not Jill. These ladies' courtesy
    Your kindness better.
    ere now. I desire you of more acquaintance, good Master
  ISABELLA. I am come to know your pleasure.

    I here importune death awhile, until
    But yet I'll go in hate, to feed upon
    have he has nothing.
    Doth make a stand at what your Highness will.
    Of feather'd Cupid seel with wanton dullness
        For a quart of ale is a dish for a king.
                           EPILOGUE.
    And make triumphant fires; strew flowers before them.
    So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.
    Nay, to thy mere confusion, thou shalt know
    Wash the congealment from your wounds and kiss
    Are making hither with all due expedience,

    'Hold, friends! friends, part!' and swifter than his tongue,
     Thou liest.  
    This is the very painting of your fear;
  NYM. I will run no base humour. Here, take the
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
     O, the difference of man and man!
  MESSALA. My master's man. Strato, where is thy master?
    Dy'd in his blood, unto the shepherd youth
                                     Exeunt Banquo. and Fleance.
    For they are actions that a man might play;
    The breese upon her, like a cow in June-
    would better fit your honour to change your mind.
    I weigh'd the danger which my realms stood in  
    Give him their heirs as pages, followed him
          Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.
    Thou seest with peril I have answered;
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Faith, I saw it not, but I felt it hot in
    At the first op'ning of the gorgeous east,

    And for the Jew's bond which he hath of me,
  LADY MACBETH. I pray you, speak not; he grows worse and worse;
    See how this river comes me cranking in

    Thou canst not frown, thou canst not look askance,

    And four shall quickly draw out my command,
    What never-dying honour hath he got
  MARIANA. Now I come to't, my lord:
    As truth's authentic author to be cited,
SCENE 3.

    And thou no more art prince than she is queen.
  CLITUS. Now is that noble vessel full of grief,
  SOLDIERS. [Within] Achilles! Achilles! Hector's slain. Achilles!
  With beauty's treasure ere it be self-killed:
    By self-unable motion; therefore dare not
    And leave me to this miserable death.
  Alb. Where have you hid yourself?
    of a pure blush thou mayst in honour come off again.
    Your scruple to the voice of Christendom.
  MOTH. Speak you this in my praise, master?
  DULL. Me, an't shall please you; I am Antony Dull.
    Inspire us with the spleen of fiery dragons!
    When I had seen this hot love on the wing
  SIR TOBY. Why, he has three thousand ducats a year.
SCENE 4
              Enter KEEPER with meat
  Why at this time the doors are made against you.
Flourish. Enter KING in triumph; with GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, and the rest

    My ill suspicion. This your son-in-law,
    Know you him?

    She may do more, sir, than denying that:
    witch, you hag you; come down, I say.
    Whom conscience and my kindred bids to right.
    To do this when I bade thee? Do it at once,
    Is it as he will? Well then, France shall rue.
  ORLANDO. I am he that is so love-shak'd; I pray you tell me your
  DUKE. Thou hast prevail'd; I pardon them, and thee;
    foolish Imogen, I should have gold enough. It's almost morning,
  SLENDER. Why, if it be so, I will marry her upon any
    London Stone, I charge and command that, of the city's cost, the
    face; if your lordship be in't, as I believe you are, you must
    Were in a mask?  
    Your noble and right well-rememb'red father's?
    If heaven would make me such another world
  FENTON. Well, farewell; I am in great haste now.
    When thou liest howling.
  Lady. That is because the traitor murderer lives.  
    acquainted with goldsmiths' wives, and conn'd them out of rings?
  Friar. Saint Francis be my speed! how oft to-night
    A virgin from her tender infancy,
    My heart as great, my reason haply more,
    To see this business. To-morrow next
    Of thine affairs as well as thou of mine?
  TIMON. That nature, being sick of man's unkindness,  
    And that you not delay the present, but,
  KING HENRY. The Princess is the better English-woman. I' faith,
Rome. TITUS' garden
    They, knowing Dame Eleanor's aspiring humour,
    In doing wrong extenuates not wrong,
    But if there be nor ever were one such,
  BAPTISTA. Nay, let them go, a couple of quiet ones.
    From Claudio, and the Prince; but what's your will?
    The snakes lie rolled in the cheerful sun;  
    Such is my love, to thee I so belong,
    Or void the field; they do offend our sight.
    Is much more general than these lines import.
  Lear. You're welcome hither.

    I do beseech thy greatness, give him blows,
    That prosperously I have attempted, and
    Or, naked as I am, I will assault thee.
    Which makes him prune himself and bristle up
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  SUFFOLK. An earl I am, and Suffolk am I call'd.

    To rive their dangerous artillery
    I'll give him reasons for't. Hie thee, Malvolio.
    Believe not that the dribbling dart of love
              Enter Montano, Gratiano, Iago, and others.
Enter a Doctor of Physic and a Waiting Gentlewoman.
    On late offenders, that he now doth lack
    How many sons hast thou of mine in store
    Your legs are young; I'll tread these flats. Consider,

    Mistress Page; I pray you pardon me; pray heartly,
    extremity of both ends. When thou wast in thy gilt and thy
    As nothing can unroot you.
    Myself have calm'd their spleenful mutiny
    Without indurance further.  
    hanging, or of some death more long in spectatorship and crueller


Dunsinane.  Before the castle.  Alarums.
    The enemy more mighty than he seems;
    some occasion may detain us longer. I dare swear he is no

  ISABELLA. Heaven keep your honour safe!
    The Tribunes hear you not, no man is by,
    tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral; scene  
    If the King please; his curses and his blessings
    The treasure in this field achiev'd and city,
Enter LEPIDUS, MAECENAS, and AGRIPPA

  GENTLEMAN. I have been sometimes there.

    What is thy sentence, then, but speechless death,
    Fear and be slain-no worse can come to fight;
    Say 'Who's a traitor? Gloucester he is none.'           Exit
  DUKE. Whipt first, sir, and hang'd after.
    Both you of my inclining and the rest.
                              [A noise again: 'Stones! Stones!']
    And now to Helen is it home return'd,
    I turn upon the true prince? Why, thou knowest I am as valiant as

    Make claim and title to the crown of France.
  PETER. Thump.
    Contract us fore these witnesses.
  PRINCE JOHN. I like this fair proceeding of the King's.
  King. Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you.
    Or my divine soul answer it in heaven-
  NESTOR. Well, and how?
    Do we shake hands. All come to this? The hearts
  GUIDERIUS. I am perfect what: cut off one Cloten's head,
    Sometimes she driveth o'er a soldier's neck,
    Shall that victorious hand be feebled here
    can call them all by their christen names, as Tom, Dick, and
    Four fixed, and the fifth did whirl about
    To his unmast'red importunity.
    altogether.  
  Sap checked with frost and lusty leaves quite gone,
    By dark'ning my clear sun. My lord, farewell.
    By this device.

    This night to meet here, they could do no less,
  ABHORSON. Is the axe upon the block, sirrah?  
                       Enter MARIA
    sake! But manhood is melted into cursies, valour into compliment,
    Those which I heav'd to head!- the good Posthumus-

    Have I with all my full affections
  Kent. I can keep honest counsel, ride, run, mar a curious tale in
    melancholy as she is, that it cannot but turn him into a notable
    O, when, I say, I look'd on Richard's face,
  PROTEUS. My gracious lord, that which I would discover
    past it yet; and, I say to thee, he would mouth with a beggar
    Have empty left their orbs and shot their fires

  STEPHANO. Monster, your fairy, which you say is a harmless
    They'll sit by th' fire and presume to know
    be said as lovers they do feign.  
    By one that looks on feeders?
    my chambers are honourible. Fie, privacy, fie!
                            their hats
  JULIA. Nay, would I were so ang'red with the same!

    The summer still doth tend upon my state;
    Till that my nails were anchor'd in thine eyes;
  JOHN. [Aside] Mass, 'twill be sore law then; for he was thrust in
  Pol. Indeed, that is out o' th' air. [Aside] How pregnant sometimes
    If now I court not, but omit, my fortunes

    remembrance, be at accord.
    Their fruits of duty. Superfluous branches

    no?
  HERMIA. So will I grow, so live, so die, my lord,
    So wilfully dost spurn; and force perforce
    A stone is soft as wax: tribunes more hard than stones.

                              Exeunt MESSENGER and certain LORDS
    him in eleven places. My niece shall take note of it; and assure
  LAUNCELOT. I will go before, sir. Mistress, look out at window for
    Always reserv'd my holy duty- what
    With tears augmenting the fresh morning's dew,
    stol'n, otherwise he had been executed; I have stood on the

    That doth not smack of observation-
    What is that noise?
  JULIA. Nay, that I will not.
  NORFOLK. I go, my lord.
    Further in the proceeding.                         Exit SECRETARY
    To guard the chicken from a hungry kite
    lowliness. Shall I command thy love? I may. Shall I enforce thy
    Or as a little snow, tumbled about,
  For thou art covetous, and he is kind,
    bully! What says my Aesculapius? my Galen? my heart
                       Enter Old Capulet.
    Of valiant Shirley, Stafford, Blunt are in my arms.
    command that their wives be as free as heart can wish or tongue
    been up these two days.
  The world will wail thee like a makeless wife,
  A FRENCH GENTLEMAN, friend to Philario

    Enter Lear, with Cordelia [dead] in his arms, [Edgar, Captain,
  Ghost. [beneath] Swear by his sword.
    Duke of Anjou and Maine, yet is he poor,  
    As if he did contemn what he requested
  MARCIUS. O, they are at it!

    Rescue those breathing lives to die in beds
    Caesar to Antony. Let the old ruffian know
    the face of terra, the soil, the land, the earth.
    This hand of mine hath writ in thy behalf,
    Sir John and all.
    is give me; in your conscience, now.
  SIR TOBY. Let him be the devil an he will, I care not; give me
    be something imperfect in favouring the first complaint, hasty

    And your three motives to the battle, with
     Intelligent of our state. What hath been seen,

           Be thy mouth or black or white,

  Edg. I was forbid it.
    Go whip him fore the people's eyes- his raising,
  RICHARD. Revoke that doom of mercy, for 'tis Clifford;
  MACBETH. Your children shall be kings.
  WARWICK. So God help Warwick, as he loves the land
  GARDENER. They are; and Bolingbroke
  DAUPHIN. Then did they imitate that which I compos'd to my courser;
    In so unseeming to confess receipt
  CONSTANCE. Stay for an answer to your embassy,
  MRS. PAGE. Here comes little Robin.

  PROVOST. Pardon me, good father; it is against my oath.
    I cannot nor I will not yield to you.
  HOST. Hark, what fine change is in the music!
    stocks, or anywhere, so I may live.
  EXETER. How were they lost? What treachery was us'd?
    man's commendation with woman than report of valour.
    I will lead forth my soldiers to the plain,  
                                          [Throws him his purse]
  
    Make holiday; your rye-straw hats put on,
    Nay more, while grace is saying hood mine eyes
  Host. The sheriff and all the watch are at the door. They are come
    The fearful passage of their death-mark'd love,
     Such different issues. You spoke not with her since?

     and hurts the poor creature of earth.
     Of differences, which I best thought it fit
    Forgo the easier.
  LADY MACBETH. That which hath made them drunk hath made me bold;
    I know thy constellation is right apt
    And ditches grave you all!
    As when, by night and negligence, the fire

  ISABELLA. I have heard of the lady, and good words went with her
    To the great sender turns a sour offence,

  ROSALIND. Well, Time is the old justice that examines all such
   Attest in little place a million;
    There lies your way, due west.
    Though all the world's vastidity you had,
  THIRD MURTHERER. There's but one down; the son is fled.
  LEPIDUS. 'Tis pity of him.
    My master, my dear lord he is; and I
    That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
  ROSALIND. Thou speak'st wiser than thou art ware of.
    Cripple our senators, that their limbs may halt
    And with a corded ladder fetch her down;
    Another of his fathom they have none
    To stir a mutiny in the mildest thoughts,
    Treason's true bed and yielder-up of breath.          Exeunt
    By interception which they dream not of.
    Witness the loving kiss I give the fruit.
    insert in't, could you not?
    But rather reason thus with reason fetter:
    If thou beest rated by thy estimation,
    Stand ranks of people, and they cry, "A sail!"
                    Enter an EGYPTIAN
    Which once perform'd, let all the world say no,
  MRS. FORD. That cannot choose but amaze him.
  Pol. Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
  GLOUCESTER. And so the Earl of Armagnac may do,
    Into the service of the time, and was  
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  To bitter sauces did I frame my feeding;
  PAULINA. That
by William Shakespeare
    saw you before in all my life.
    Longing for what it had not. Nay, the dust  
  YORK. Ho! who is within there?
    of me then- for now I speak to some purpose- that I know you are
    And when he's sick to death, let not that part of nature
    he's ever sending. How shall I thank him, think'st thou? And what
  OXFORD. Ay, for if Edward repossess the crown,
                                                      Exit GAUNT
    That bears so shrewd a maim: two pulls at once-
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Jew is the very devil incarnation; and, in my conscience, my
  SATURNINUS. Then go successantly, and plead to him.
  MALCOLM. I know him now. Good God, betimes remove
    Is thought with child by the stern tyrant war,
    Although I did admit it as a motive
  SEBASTIAN. I do; and surely
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Brought to this town by that most famous warrior,
  CAIUS. What shall de honest man do in my closet? Dere is
  PROTEUS. Look to the boy.
    Hath begg'd that I will stay at home today.
    For nothing hath begot my something grief,
  ANTONY. I am dying, Egypt, dying; only
    Those twins of learning that he rais'd in you,
     Stew'd in his haste, half breathless, panting forth
    And, like a dog that is compell'd to fight,
                                        Exeunt all but the CLOWN


 [Disarms]
     Our father he hath writ, so hath our sister,
    Good-morrow, friends. Saint Valentine is past;
    I find it still when I have list to sleep.
    rude that would not be a Roman? If any, speak, for him have I
  CLOTEN. You sin against

    our mistress the world, and all our misery.
  MOTH. Master, will you win your love with a French brawl?
    But what thou art besides, thou wert too base  
  MALCOLM. Perchance even there where I did find my doubts.
  FAIRY QUEEN. Fairies, black, grey, green, and white,
                           Enter Roderigo.
    Power into will, will into appetite;
    sad. I fear you have sold your own lands to see other men's; then
    I stagger in. But this new governor
    form of a soldier. And such fellows are perfect in the great
                                               Exit an attendant
    Open, locks,
    a young Florentine called Claudio.
    In what vile part of this anatomy
    Your swords are now too massy for your strengths
     I do beseech your Grace-
  GLOUCESTER. Fairer than tongue can name thee, let me have
    A chough of as deep chat. O, that you bore
    is but variable service- two dishes, but to one table. That's the


    That I am touch'd with madness. Make not impossible
  LUCIO. [To ISABELLA] Ay, touch him; there's the vein.
  ROSALIND. Not true in love?
  And brass eternal slave to mortal rage.
  Lords, Priests, Sailors, Officers, Musicians, and Attendants
                          Enter PUCK  

    imprisonment, and your deliverance with an unpitied whipping, for
    Far from this country Pindarus shall run,
    Love can transpose to form and dignity.
  Cor. Be govern'd by your knowledge, and proceed
    On Navarre and his book-men, for here 'tis abused.
  LUCIUS' SERVANT. Many do keep their chambers are not sick;
    Is only bitter to him, only dying,
LADY ANNE being the mourner, attended by TRESSEL and BERKELEY
    And you must needs bestow her funeral;  
Another part of the field.
  When your sweet issue your sweet form should bear.  
  WIDOW. I should believe you;
    For fear I surfeit.
    And yet your beards forbid me to interpret

    knighthood and my soldiership aside, I had lied in my throat if I
    Banish the canker of ambitious thoughts!
  MARGARET. What?
The park
    There's not a grain of it the face to sweeten
    As 'twere a knell unto our master's fortune,


    With soft low tongue and lowly courtesy,
    Look to your house, your daughter, and your bags!
       wrought with flowers, bearing the QUEEN'S train.
    Love, friendship, charity, are subjects all
    Within my soul there doth conduce a fight
  CASSIUS. Mark Antony-
     her!
  Mer. Come, sir, your passado!
    drawer.                                        Exit BARDOLPH
  OTHELLO. A horned man's a monster and a beast.  
  MARCUS. Ay, that's my boy! Thy father hath full oft
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. The same.
  LAUNCE. Why, he that's tied here, Crab, my dog.
    But wherefore waste I time to counsel the

    Yea, all my raiment, to my petticoat;
    'An Angelo for Claudio, death for death!'
    He will recover straight. When he is gone,
    And give't Iago. What he will do with it
  DUCHESS. My pretty cousins, you mistake me both;
    A generation of still-breeding thoughts,
    The valiant never taste of death but once.
    That will with due decision make us know
  TOUCHSTONE. Come, sweet Audrey;

    his bird's nest.
  KING. Where is the crown? Who took it from my pillow?
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Here come the Lords of Ross and Willoughby,
    So speaking as I think, I die, I die.                       Dies.

    sweat'st! Come, let me wipe thy face. Come on, you whoreson
    What crows have peck'd them here. He brags his service,
  KING HENRY. Unfold it.
PINCH. I charge thee, Satan, hous'd within this man,
  PARIS. To a hair.
    Hear you this Triton of the minnows? Mark you
    Some two months hence up higher toward the north
    I'll wink and couch; no man their works must eye.

  ROSALIND. Let me love him for that; and do you love him because I

Enter ANGELO, ESCALUS, a JUSTICE, PROVOST, OFFICERS, and other ATTENDANTS
    And yet I wish but for the thing I have.
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS and SIMPLE
    In us, thy friend. Give me thy hand, stand up;
  THERSITES. Thy knower, Patroclus. Then tell me, Patroclus, what art
    her and ill thought on of you; gone between and between, but
    Like to a harvest-man that's task'd to mow
               O sweet Oliver,
<Exeunt
  SUFFOLK. Why, Warwick, who should do the Duke to death?
    Virtue is beauty; but the beauteous evil
  CHAMBERLAIN. True, they are so;
  KING. But wilt thou not speak all thou know'st?
    find I will most kindly requite. I had myself notice of my
    Although my body pay the price of it.
    That ring's a thousand proofs.
    And all the number of his fair demands
    I'll commend you to my master.

    Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
    By all their influences, you may as well

                                                         Exeunt.
  OTHELLO. This argues fruitfulness and liberal heart;
  COSTARD. It is Great, sir.
    pie and your porridge than in your cheek. And your virginity,
    anon.
  O, how the channel to the stream gave grace!
  KING JOHN. From henceforth bear his name whose form thou bearest:
  ISABELLA. Else let my brother die,
    instant do build on thee a better opinion than ever before. Give
    By so much fills their hearts with deadly hate.
    Are they return'd?
    A crew of patches, rude mechanicals,
  LODOVICO.                    What, strike his wife!
                                             Exeunt the YORKISTS
    Which in the right of Richard Plantagenet
    And I had his, Sir Robert's his, like him;
    Say, uncle Gloucester, if our brother come,
           Re-enter WARWICK, GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE
    Would not be purg'd, she sent you word she was dead;
    It cannot be this weak and writhled shrimp
  Or, if you like elsewhere, do it by stealth;
    There's tricks i' th' world, and hems, and beats her heart;
  BRUTUS. What said Popilius Lena?
    Much is the force of heaven-bred poesy.
    better. And therefore tell me, most fair Katherine, will you have
    Said he not so? or did I dream it so?
  MONTJOY. My master's mind.
    And now 'tis up again. It must be married
    The wisest aunt, telling the saddest tale,
    'Tis full of woe; yet I can give you inkling

  PRINCE OF WALES. To Edward, but not to the English king.
    the cabileros about London.
  TROILUS. Hear why I speak it, love.
    I prattle out of fashion, and I dote
  Pedro. The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you. The gentleman that
Exit
  CAESAR. I could be well moved, if I were as you;
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Discourse, I prithee, on this turret's top.
    love, his mistress; and I set him every day to woo me; at which
    If she do bid me pack, I'll give her thanks,
    That I will here dismiss my loving friends,
    Your worship was the last man in our mouths.
    Cassius, go you into the other street
    Therefore, my loving lords, our pleasure is
  KING RICHARD. O Ratcliff, I have dream'd a fearful dream!
  LORD. Huntsman, I charge thee, tender well my hounds;  
ADRIANA. He meant he did me none-the more my spite.
    For she hath blessed and attractive eyes.
    To fright the souls of fearful adversaries,
    In practice let us put it presently.                 Exeunt.
    And talk of them when he was dead and gone.
    The memory be green, and that it us befitted

    And I have reason for it. Signior Antonio
    In aspiration lifts him from the earth.
                            Enter Cassio.
  MARGARET. To be a queen in bondage is more vile
    And buzz these conjurations in her brain.
    The upper Germany, can dearly witness,
    And all th' unsettled humours of the land-
    are dispos'd to be merry; I will laugh like a hyen, and that when
    By pardoning Rutland, my transgressing boy.

    Remember your bold life too.
  SECOND LORD. Nay, good my lord, put him to't; let him have his way.
  MOTH. You may do it in an hour, sir.
    the feeding.
                 Enter DUCHESS
    And wash away thy country's stained spots.
    To good or bad.               [CYMBELINE and IMOGEN advance]
    And rob me of a happy mother's name?
    an agate till now; but I will inset you neither in gold nor
  AUTOLYCUS. He has a son- who shall be flay'd alive; then 'nointed
    forlorn that his dimensions to any thick sight were invisible. 'A  
    Once more, my Lord of Winchester, I charge you,
    passion ends the play.
    A way, if it take right, in spite of fortune,
  PRINCE HENRY. I have a kind soul that would give you thanks,
     Give it the Captain.  
    said.  
  BASSANIO. Gratiano!
    wake in joy;
    We cannot without circumstance descry.
    Advise him.

    The sides o' th' world- against all colour here
    For I will love thee ne'er the less, my girl.
    And such a piece of service will you do,
  THESEUS. Well run, Thisby.
    To my heart's hope! Gold, silver, and base lead.
  Claud. If he be, he knows how to turn his girdle.

    Which not to have done, I think had been in me
    The news of thy success; and when he reads
    Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest!
    Wherewith I reign'd? I hardly yet have learn'd  
    Let Lion, Moonshine, Wall, and lovers twain,

    But, soft! Company is coming here.
    From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
    To lay down likelihoods and forms of hope.  
    Shall make it good or do his best to do it:

    Thence to be wrench'd with an unlineal hand,
  SECOND CITIZEN. That's as much as to say they are fools that marry.
  DIOMEDES. Both alike:
    But now two mirrors of his princely semblance
Dramatis Personae
OLIVIA'S house
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
           Pins and poking-sticks of steel-
             I am fear'd in field and town.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  SMITH. [Aside] Nay, John, it will be stinking law; for his breath
    That such an army could be drawn in France,

    action. Zounds, an I were now by this rascal, I could brain him
    Lays her full mess before you. Want! Why want?  
    Which hurts and is desir'd. Dost thou lie still?
                       Enter Ophelia.
  OLIVIA. Make your proof.
  Lear. Inform'd them? Dost thou understand me, man?
Enter a Sewer and divers Servants with dishes and service, who pass over
    That ministers thine own death if I die.
    usurer's chain? or under your arm, like a lieutenant's scarf? You
  A HUNTSMAN
    scap'd!

    What I command, I'll rack thee with old cramps,
    know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will
    Then let the worst, unheard, fall on your head.
  TIMON. Yes, thou spok'st well of me.

    His brows within a golden crown, and call'd
    Let it be seen to-morrow in the battle  
    His ring I do accept most thankfully,
     an essay or taste of my virtue.
    Men's natures wrangle with inferior things,
    Than dogs, that are as often beat for barking
  FIRST LORD. How is this justified?
  Hot. In faith, it is exceedingly well aim'd.
    By its own visage; if I then deny it,
    They are the faction. O Conspiracy,
    If you be pleas'd, retire into my cell  
    When she will play with reason and discourse,
    Will you be put in mind of his blind fortune,

    But they are cruel tears; this sorrow's heavenly,
    That every day with parle encounter me,
     'Gainst parricides did all their thunders bend;  
    wisdom there.
    Which thou heard'st cry, which thou saw'st sink.
  Lear. Dost thou know me, fellow?
    Your wrongs do set a scandal on my sex.
    I cannot tremble at it. Were it toad, or adder, spider,
    talk of you last night. Though you are a fool and a knave, you
    What if it be a poison which the friar
    Into the fatal bowels of the deep.
Enter Chorus.
    For vainer hours, and tutors not so careful.
    with him?

    Obey the bride, you that attend on her;
    Therefore omit him not; blunt not his love,
    If he had gone forth consul, found it so.
    Remember whom you are to cope withal-
    I scarce can speak to thank you for myself.
    That hath dishonoured Gloucester's honest name.
  Bind Dromio too, and bear them to my house.
    'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.
ACT III. SCENE 1.
    And that which you did swear to keep for me,


                    Re-enter TIMON and FLAVIUS
  Edg. I heard myself proclaim'd,
  Bene. Come, come, we are friends. Let's have a dance ere we are
    ease he is; and that he that wants money, means, and content, is
    Thus will I drown your exclamations.
    That are without him, as place, riches, and favour,
    apparel, and smell like Bucklersbury in simple time; I
  

  ANTONY. By sea, by sea.
     And the King gone to-night? subscrib'd his pow'r?
    I do believe that violent hands were laid  
    Of any thing the image, tell me, that
         Silver'd o'er, and so was this.
    the slander of his wife.
  Cap. Wife. He is a kinsman to the Montague;  
    O, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound
    This is call'd the Reply Churlish. If again it was not well cut,
all being servants of TIMON's creditors, to wait for his coming out.
  VIOLA. Alas, I took great pains to study it, and 'tis poetical.
  Bene. Yea, and a case to put it into. But speak you this with a sad
  FITZWATER. If that thy valour stand on sympathy,  
  KING. A letter from the magnificent Armado.
    Are come from visiting his Majesty.
    He wonders to what end you have assembled
    In noble eminence enthron'd and spher'd
    Live here in heaven and may look on her;
    Ladies and maids their scarfs and handkerchers,
    But now return we to the false Duke Humphrey.
    would speak of concerns him.
    And his unkindness may defeat my life,
  FALSTAFF. As good a man as he, sir, whoe'er I am. Do you yield,
  SERVANT. There comes with them a forerunner, my lord, which bears
    Out of the pain you suffer'd, gave no ear to't.
    That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
    Where kings command. I was, I must confess,
  PROSPERO. But are they, Ariel, safe?

    Affected greatness got by you, not you;
  Ant. At a word, I am not.
  BEROWNE. Is ebony like her? O wood divine!
    recompense me in making me a cuckold.
    That box I gave you was not thought by me
  BASTARD. O, tremble, for you hear the lion roar!
    And here he comes. All health, my sovereign lord!
    In the same pulpit whereto I am going,
    'twould out'; and so there is; but it lies as coldly in him as
  FRENCH KING. I have but with a cursorary eye
  PAROLLES. Ay, that would be known. To th' wars, my boy, to th'

    To show false Art what beauty was of yore.
    trudge with it in all haste, and carry it among the whitsters
  KING RICHARD. Saw'st thou the melancholy Lord
    There is Aufidius. List what work he makes
    He might have bought me at a common price.
    Creatures that by a rule in nature teach
     but can smell him that's stinking. Let go thy hold when a great  
    Be thou reveng'd on men, and let me live.
    Says it is past her cure.
    sall find, in the comparisons between Macedon and Monmouth, that
    Upon my soul, two reverend cardinal virtues;
  IMOGEN. My good master,

      straight
  Are errors of the blood, none of the mind;
    I prithee, call him back.
    Most throughly for my father.
    heart.
    And with his varying childness cures in me
    What his breast forges, that his tongue must vent;

    Which now we hold at much uncertainty.
    God be wi' you; take mine office. O wretched fool,
  SUFFOLK. I'll call him presently, my noble lord.          Exit
  PRINCE. Sirrah, you boy, and Bardolph, no word to your master that
  THIRD OUTLAW. Know, then, that some of us are gentlemen,
  My love is as a fever longing still,
    Ere ye come there, be sure to hear some news.  
  Bene. Like the old tale, my lord: 'It is not so, nor 'twas not so;
    Nor Bruise her flow'rets with the armed hoofs
    I'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent.
    Before I were forc'd out!
    Hath sometime lov'd. I take thy hand- this hand,
    temper would endure this tempest of exclamation? Are you not

  PRINCE HUMPHREY. He alt'red much upon the hearing it.
    Where is the evidence that doth accuse me?
     Who I'll entreat to lead me.
    As those that feed grow full, as blossoming time
    wise remedy how to avoid it.
  ADAM. [Coming forward] Sweet masters, be patient; for your father's
    to us,
    But how I caught it, found it, or came by it,
    Bids them good morrow with a modest smile,
  THERSITES. And any man may sing her, if he can take her cliff;
  yet he loseth it in a kind of jollity.
  SOLDIER. Most certain.
  POLIXENES. I have considered so much, Camillo, and with some care,
    excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it
    Which you say live to come in my behalf.  
  PROVOST. His friends still wrought reprieves for him; and, indeed,
    Three thousand confident, in act as many-
    That even his stubbornness, his checks, his frowns-
    And venomous to thine eyes. My sometime General,
    Nor change my countenance for this arrest:



  CORIOLANUS. By Jupiter, forgot!
    Tell her the process of Antonio's end;

    By devilish policy art thou grown great,
  SERVANT. I heard him say Brutus and Cassius

  GRUMIO. Katherine the curst!
    shall eat. Go to; follow.
    captivated, bound.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Is the King's hand and tongue, and who dare speak
    For losing ken of Albion's wished coast.
SCENE III.
  PORTER. An't please your honour,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Where small experience grows. But in a few,
    So near the Emperor's palace dare ye draw
    The open ear of youth doth always listen;
    I shall have such a life!
    shirt and a half in all my company; and the half-shirt is two  
  BERTRAM. I'll lend it thee, my dear, but have no power
    This act is as an ancient tale new told  
    seven years, and since I could distinguish betwixt a benefit and
  PHILOTUS. I am of your fear for that.


    sing? Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow
    Where are you there, Sir John? Nay, fear not, man,
  CASSIO. Ay, but, by your leave, not before me; the lieutenant is to
  HUBERT. Thou hast a perfect thought.
    The element itself, till seven years' heat,
    And nothing can or shall content my soul

    And I will wish thee never more to dance,
  THERSITES. God buy you, with all my heart.
    I'll undertake to land them on our coast
and the EARL of OXFORD.  LEWIS sits, and riseth up again
    Or made a gift of it, my father's eye
  PETRUCHIO. A hundred marks, my Kate does put her down.
    What surety of the world, what hope, what stay,
    To second all his plot. I do assure you
    And know how we proceed.
    As looks the mother on her lowly babe
  KING RICHARD. Why, what wouldst thou do there before I
                           Enter Gadshill.
    Hath broken his staff, resign'd his stewardship,
    His tongue is now a stringless instrument;
  FIRST LORD. Why does he ask him of me?

    Those thoughts to me were oaks, to thee like osiers bowed.

    And watch'd him how he singled Clifford forth.
    More homely than thy state. For thee, fond boy,
    The danger to itself?
  ALICE. De nails, madame.
  Beat. Talk with a man out at a window!-a proper saying!  
  YORK. O blood-bespotted Neapolitan,
    Was pitied of Macbeth; marry, he was dead.
    To Fortune's alms.  
    I lov'd your father, and we love ourself,
    Mistrust of my success hath done this deed.  
    These oaths and laws will prove an idle scorn.
    And make proud Saturnine and his emperess
  MENENIUS. O me, the gods!
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  KING HENRY. And those occasions, uncle, were of force;
  KING. I'll fee thee to stand up.
  FLUELLEN. Here is the man.
    Speak, or thy silence on the instant is
    Where be the thronging troops that followed thee?
  YORK. Speak it in French, King, say 'pardonne moy.'
  ANTONIO. But, O, how vile an idol proves this god!
SCENE III.
  Balth. Well, I would you did like me.
    How deep you were within the books of God?
  Which on thy soft check for complexion dwells,
    As for my sons, say I account of them
    According to their firm proposed natures.
  ARCHIDAMUS. If the King had no son, they would desire to live on
ANGELO. You wrong me more, sir, in denying it.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. God bless my ladies! Are they all in love,
    Richard, I bear thy name; I'll venge thy death,
    I'll fetch the general's surgeon. [To Bianca.] For you, mistress,
  WILLIAM. Genitive: horum, harum, horum.
    own getting. Horns? Even so. Poor men alone? No, no; the noblest
    But straight they told me they would bind me here
    And, to be more than what you were, you would
  Who, young and simple, would not be so lovered?
    blind, with a muffler afore her eyes, to signify to you that
  HERMIONE. Was not my lord
    Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,



    Did tell me of you, bade me trust you; but
    Have an immediate freedom of repeal.
    tell you that that Lord Say hath gelded the commonwealth and made
    Therefore bring forth the soldiers of our prize;
    Cannot be ill, cannot be good. If ill,
    Full well I wot the ground of all this grudge:
    brother Gloucester:

     In some of our best ports and are at point
    Which so-long-sund'red friends should dwell upon.
    And to bestow your pity on me; for
  PROSPERO. First, noble friend,
    What is the news?
  DICK. What say you of Kent?
    And to your shadow will I make true love.
    Then enter to his rescue BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS  
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    shape, discourse, manhood, learning, gentleness, virtue, youth,
    But Margaret, that is daughter to a king?
    How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
    Ere sun-rise, prayers from preserved souls,

Enter three Murtherers.
    The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle!
    To those of mine in court. I'll stay at home,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Of one poor scruple; nay, if the scale do turn
    Left I his title out.
    Good things will strive to dwell with't.
    My friend Polixenes; which had been done
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    My sighs and tears and will not once relent?
    A ramping fool, to brag and stamp and swear
    Taking the measure of an unmade grave.
  Had hoisted sail and put to sea to-day.
    Upon his death?
    any man in all Venice. His reasons are as two grains of wheat hid

         Enter the KING and BUTTS at window above
    I ha't!
    borrowed mine oaths of him, and might not spend them at my
    of the King, who had even tun'd his bounty to sing happiness to
  Queen. But not by him!
    Spent more in her defence. But, worthy Hector,
  AGUECHEEK. Dieu vous garde, monsieur.
    Into so quiet and so sweet a style.
    His equal had awak'd them; and his honour,
  Gent. Ay, madam. In the heaviness of sleep
    Your quondam wife swears still by Venus' glove.  
    found him than he was when you sought him. I am the youngest of
  LAUNCELOT. It is much that the Moor should be more than reason; but  
   Carry them here and there, jumping o'er times,
  DUKE. This letter, then, to Friar Peter give;
  Osw. I'll not be strucken, my lord.
    Would better fit his chamber than this shadow.
    And other of your Highness' Privy Council,
    sworn brother.  
  ALCIBIADES. We but offend him. Strike.
  FIRST CITIZEN. We cannot, sir; we are undone already.
  MARIA. They say so most that most his humours know.
ACT_4|SC_9
    For I have sworn thee fair, and thought thee bright,
     On things would hurt me more. But I'll go in.
    Which you knew great, and to the certain hazard
  PANDULPH. You hold too heinous a respect of grief.
  Peruse the traders, gaze upon the buildings,
    False to his children and his wife's allies;
  VALENTINE. I quote it in your jerkin.
    What did you whisper in your lady's ear?
  Ham. For God's love let me hear!
    Now do your duty throughly, I advise you.
    Even so myself bewails good Gloucester's case
  CLOWN. Troth, sir, I can yield you none without words, and words

WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Hearing you were retir'd, your friends fall'n off,
  ANTONIO. My Lord Bassanio, let him have the ring.
    And here is writ 'love-wounded Proteus.'
  In the old age black was not counted fair,
    things, I confess, I cannot help. By the mass, here comes  
     With cadent tears fret channels in her cheeks,
    Whose messengers are here about my side,
  CLOWN. Indeed, sir, if your metaphor stink, I will stop my nose; or
  HASTINGS. 'Tis Gaultree Forest, an't shall please your Grace.
  SIWARD. Enter, sir, the castle.
  TRANIO. Th'art a tall fellow; hold thee that to drink.
    Magic of bounty, all these spirits thy power
    thither, which now I'll go about.                       Exit
  Kent. With the Earl, sir, here within.

  And since I have not much importun'd you;
    Than plural faith, which is too much by one.
  CLOWN. A prophet I, madam; and I speak the truth the next way:
    I'll fear thee as I fear thy father? Nay, an I do, I pray God my
  PETRUCHIO. Were it better, I should rush in thus.
    Though, I confess, much like the character;  
    But go we in, I pray thee, Jessica,
    A lady like me; with a love even such,
    Toward the King first, then his laws, in filling

    in eight and six.
    For the fair devil. Now art thou my lieutenant.
    When I am sure you hate me with your hearts.
  CRESSIDA. Nor nothing monstrous neither?
  Mess. My lord, prepare. The King comes on apace.
    And in compassion weep the fire out;
    Or if you will, to speak more properly,
  Prince. Seven? Why, there were but four even now.
     Speak, Edmund, where's the King? and where's Cordelia?

    Knock, knock, knock! Who's there, i' the name of Belzebub? Here's
    And nothing of your answer.
    This speedy and quick appearance argues proof
    Or Night kept chain'd below.
  HELENA. Your pardon, noble mistress.

    o' th' contrary. If ever thou be'st bound in thy scarf and
    would leave drinking, thou wert as witty a piece of Eve's flesh
    That lack of means enforce you not to evils;
  QUICKLY. By your leave; I cry you mercy. Give your
Sound a sennet. Enter RICHARD, in pomp, as KING; BUCKINGHAM, CATESBY,
  QUEEN. And must we be divided? Must we part?
  FIRST SENATOR.                    This cannot be,
  Than those old nine which rhymers invocate,

  BOY. I say, my lord, that if I were a man
    Of your fresh princess; o'er and o'er divides him  
                     Exeunt CORIOLANUS and COMINIUS, with others

  OLIVER. Look, he recovers.  
    A peaceful progress to the ocean.
    You put our page out. Go, you are allow'd;
          Sing all a green willow;
    You must perforce accomplish as you may.
  BATES. Be friends, you English fools, be friends; we have
                                      [Draws out his table-book]
    More noble than that runagate to your bed,
    That foul defacer of God's handiwork,
    serve her; she is my lady. Why, this is evident to any formal

    How ceremonious, solemn, and unearthly,
    As thou report'st thyself, wast then her servant;
  DUKE. Why should I not, had I the heart to do it,
  IMOGEN. He is a Roman, no more kin to me
    My daughter is not for thee; and now, in madness,
  CHIRON. And this for me, struck home to show my strength.

    twenty times upon far poorer moment. I do think there is mettle
    The time is unagreeable to this business.  
        white; and FENTON steals away ANNE PAGE. A noise
    master Jew's?
    I have been broad awake two hours and more.
  Ham. You are welcome.
                         Enter SIR TOBY

    Contending 'gainst obedience, as they would make
    Descended into perjury, to love me.
    me knave. Begin, fool: it begins 'Hold thy peace.'
  OLIVIA. A sister! You are she.
    Of these our dear-belov'd solemnized,

    Th' one half of my commission, and set down-
    To-morrow morning come you to my house,
  BRUTUS. Or let us stand to our authority
  LUCY. I'll bear them hence; but from their ashes shall be


    Untimely smother'd in their dusky graves.
    And hark what discord follows! Each thing melts
    A true man or a thief that gallops so?
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  THERSITES. Hum!
    Most dear'st! my collop! Can thy dam?- may't be?
  Coral is far more red, than her lips red,
  Hot. The King is kind; and well we know the King
  Bard. Yea, and to tickle our noses with speargrass to make them
  AMIENS. And I'll sing it.
    Did, as he vouches, misreport your Grace.
      Doctor.

                    Enter Macbeth.
  PANDARUS. I swear to you I think Helen loves him better than Paris.
  BRUTUS. O Julius Caesar, thou art mighty yet!
  ANTONIO. Alas the day!
  Ros. My most dear lord!
    About my moneys and my usances;
    To answer twenty thousand such as you.
  If it prove so, I will be gone the sooner.
  Spend'st thou thy fury on some worthless song,
  NESTOR. Our general doth salute you with a kiss.
    reputation! I have lost the immortal part of myself, and what
    make you at Elsinore?
  O thou my lovely boy who in thy power,
    The noise was here. Ha! no more moving?
    But in a dream of friendship,
    Ran on the green-sward; nothing she does or seems
    But when I look on her perfections,
    If that thou be'st a devil, I cannot kill thee.      Wounds Iago.
    Shrewdness of policy too- I grieving grant
    Valiant and virtuous, full of haughty courage,
  VINCENTIO. Carry me to the gaol!
    Be call'd our mother, but our grave. Where nothing,
    you that countenance you are; or I will scarce think you have
    music and thy English broken; therefore, Queen of all, Katherine,
    Can nothing render but allegiant thanks;
    To be reveng'd on him.

    Shall be call'd queen, but princess dowager
    Who hither come engaged by my oath-
  HOSTESS. By my troth, he'll yield the crow a pudding one of these
    To your protection I commend me, gods.
  CORNELIUS. O gods!
    She is Lavinia, therefore must be lov'd.
    Because he would avoid such bitter taunts
    I would not for half Troy have you seen here.
    'Tis not my profit that does lead mine honour:
Forres. The palace.
    Two women plac'd together makes cold weather.
    Is business of estate, in which we come
    Distinctly speak of her; though I may fear,
  PAROLLES. I know him: 'a was a botcher's prentice in Paris, from
  Mort. Good father, tell her that she and my aunt Percy
  O'er whom thy fingers walk with gentle gait,
  DIOMEDES. I shall have it.
  ISABELLA. Unhappy Claudio! Wretched Isabel!
    But for thy sword and fortune, trod upon them-
    To feed for aye her lamp and flames of love;
                                              Exit with the body

  EVANS. Master Ford, you must pray, and not follow the
    Most freely I confess myself and Toby
    Would cast the gorge at this embalms and spices
  Kent. Let it fall rather, though the fork invade
    Could I but catch it for them.
    Dogs howl'd, and hideous tempest shook down trees;
  MAECENAS. Now Antony must leave her utterly.
  JOHN. Come, come, let's fall in with them.
    The Viscount Rochford-one of her Highness' women.
    There comes the ruin, there begins confusion.           Exit
                   Reply, reply.
    Passion, I see, is catching, for mine eyes,
  MACBETH. If we should fail?
    done.
A camp near Forres. Alarum within.
  BOTH TRIBUNES. What then, sir?  
  GREMIO. You may go to the devil's dam; your gifts are so good
by William Shakespeare
    As you did mean indeed to be our brother;  
    Lord Aberga'ny, to whom by oath he menac'd
  BOY. Grandsire, 'tis Ovid's Metamorphoses;
  GLOUCESTER. I cannot tell if to depart in silence
    As fear may teach us, out of late examples
    Unless thou let his silver water keep
    With ships made cities, condemn myself to lack
  Pol. The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,
    If I speak true! If hollowly, invert
    south, and their consent of one direct way should be at once to
    Are made already mothers. By my count,  
  Prince. We two saw you four set on four, and bound them and were
    Your daughter, if you have not given her leave,
  CRANMER.  [Aside]  I am fearful-wherefore frowns he thus?
    Had quite miscarried; I dare be bound again,
    Truly, I would the gods had made thee poetical.
    Must kings neglect that private men enjoy!
    Is our best having.

                          Enter CUPID
  SLENDER. I'll eat nothing, I thank you, sir.
    Comprising all that may be sworn or said,
    action. Come, thou must not be in this humour with me; dost not
    If Henry were recall'd to life again,
    To whom he sends, and what's his embassy:
  PISTOL. What, I do bring good news?
    Slender?
    Your praise is come too swiftly home before you.
  Oph. What is, my lord?
  Gon. Not so hot!
  KING HENRY. Why then Lord Talbot there shall talk with
    Which I have here recover'd from the Moor.
  CADE. Brave thee? Ay, by the best blood that ever was broach'd, and
    Speak: who began this? On thy love, I charge thee.
    Which to preserve is sleep, which being spotted
  SHERIFF. It is my office; and, madam, pardon me.
               Thorny hedgehogs, be not seen;
    And every drop cries vengeance for his death
  Wor. O no, my nephew must not know, Sir Richard,
    And shall I now give o'er the yielded set?
    First made to heaven, first be to heaven perform'd,
    So levied as before, against the Polack;
    Though it do well, I do not relish well  
                                          [Offers Kent his cap.]
ANGELO. What please yourself, sir; I have made it for you.
           For, with throwing thus my head,
  Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
    never answer a calf when he bleats.
  And in a dark and dankish vault at home
    He sent command to the Lord Mayor straight
  CHIRON. Thy counsel, lad, smells of no cowardice.
    (O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones)
    Than Julius Caesar or bright
  BOLINGBROKE. Can no man tell me of my unthrifty son?
  SECOND LORD. I must go look my twigs; he shall be caught.


    Now help, or woe betide thee evermore!
    I beg this boon, with tears not lightly shed,
    Fram'd in the prodigality of nature,
    know into what straits of fortune she is driven; and it is not

    She's with the lion deeply still in league,
    Than of his outward show; which, God He knows,
    And every man hence to his idle bed;
    Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
    'Where is the life that late I led?' say they.
    That I must call't in question.

    So many English kings. Thy due from me

    Do strongly speak to us; but the letters to
  OLD MAN. 'Tis said they eat each other.
    My body shall make good upon this earth,
    He lent me counsel, and I lent him eyes.
    So is the equal poise of this fell war.
  Poins. As merry as crickets, my lad. But hark ye; what cunning
    to his jealousy.
    please God. Ha, the Prince and Monsieur Love! I will hide me in
    As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
    to hear a Bergomask dance between two of our company?
    Thou art more deep damn'd than Prince Lucifer;
    are in a most warlike preparation, and hope to come upon them in
    Discolour; and so, Montjoy, fare you well.
    The manner of thy vile outrageous crimes,  
  Edg. Ay, master.

    In bearing thus the absence of your lord.
    To sin's rebuke and my Creator's praise.

    Are crack'd in pieces by malignant death,
  BRUTUS. Not to them all.

    well. By this hand, I say 'tis very scurvy, and begin to find
  Nurse to Juliet.
     Your business of the world hath so an end,
    With all good speed at Plashy visit me.
    Ay, and amid this hurly I intend
    That ends this strange eventful history,
    That rise thus nimbly by a true king's fall.
    Good gentle youth, tempt not a desp'rate man.

  VOLUMNIA. If it be honour in your wars to seem
    Thou'st made me cuckold.
  SHYLOCK. What, wouldst thou have a serpent sting thee twice?
    Not bear the knife myself. Besides, this Duncan

  Lear. What's he that hath so much thy place mistook
    she has as many diseases as two and fifty horses. Why, nothing
    Put armour on thine ears and on thine eyes,
    T' entreat your Grace but in a small request,
  KING. Wherefore hast thou accus'd him all this while?
    That from the hunter's aim had ta'en a hurt,  
  PISTOL. Let vultures gripe thy guts! for gourd and fullam
Westminster. The palace
    'Tis not enough to help the feeble up,
  CAESAR. Bid them prepare within.
  TIMON. I understand thee: thou hadst some means to keep a dog.
    Are by the shrieve of Yorkshire overthrown.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    And do not doubt, right noble Princes both,
    peach-colour'd ones- or to bear the inventory of thy shirts- as,

    come before Master Constable.
    Who, ring'd about with bold adversity,
    And with uplifted arms is safe arriv'd

  MRS. FORD. We burn daylight. Here, read, read; perceive
A room in the castle.
    Come hither, Moor.
  Corn. Whither is he going?
  GEORGE. Thou hast hit it; for there's no better sign of a brave
    Still serve him with my life. My dearest master!
  KING HENRY. Have done with words, my lords, and hear me speak.
                                             Advances to Caesar.
    To sit with us once more, with better heed
  BEROWNE. By Jove, I always took three threes for nine.
    With twenty hundred thousand times more joy
    A begging prince what beggar pities not?

    Laid to thy answer; but the last- O lords,
  He of tall building, and of goodly pride.
                                          [Lays down his mantle]
  BUCKINGHAM. So, so!
  MRS. FORD. If I would but go to hell for an eternal moment
  COUNTESS. What is the -matter?
    Not yet enjoy'd. So tedious is this day
    clown, sweeter fool, sweetest lady! By the world, I would not
    To drive away the heavy thought of care?
    For night-owls shriek where mounting larks should sing.
    Whose thankless natures- O abhorred spirits!-
  VALENTINE. So do you.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    thanks you have liv'd so long, and make yourself ready
    Thou that contrived'st to murder our dead lord;
    As Angelo; even so may Angelo,
  Jul. Hie to high fortune! Honest nurse, farewell.
    A strange invisible perfume hits the sense  
    Sly frantic wretch, that holp'st to make me great,
                           Enter Portia.
    Our colours do return in those same hands
    That I, one Snout by name, present a wall;
          And such a daughter,
  MENELAUS. You fillip me o' th' head.
    Right son to the right Vincentio,
  BOYET. Navarre had notice of your fair approach,
SCENE III.
                          Enter ROBIN
  SPEED. What an ass art thou! I understand thee not.
  BRUTUS. Lay hands upon him.
    Let not to-morrow then ensue to-day;
  
  CASSIUS. I think we are too bold upon your rest.
    How now? a conduit, girl? What, still in tears?
    O, answer not; but to my closet bring
    out.
    you.
  ANTONY. Caesar did write for him to come to Rome.
                      Enter Murtherers.
    Which my despair proclaims. Let that be left
    And this for Rutland; both bound to revenge,

    Thou didst accuse him of incontinency;
A city in Illyria; and the sea-coast near it
    Your faithful service, and your toil in war;
    What though the mast be now blown overboard,
    He hath and is again to cope your wife.

          Enter three soldiers: JOHN BATES, ALEXANDER COURT,
    And then we will deliver you the cause
    And yet, in faith, thou bearest thee like a king.
  MESSENGER. Will't please you hear me?
    We please to have it grow. Check thy contempt;
  VARRO'S SERVANT. What is a whoremaster, fool?

  SUFFOLK. Thou shalt be waking while I shed thy blood,
    Thou let'st thy fortune sleep-die rather; wink'st
  WESTMORELAND. O that we now had here
  Edg. Who gives anything to poor Tom? whom the foul fiend hath led  
    by such two that would by all likelihood have confounded one the
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Unless Lord Suffolk straight be done to death,

  HOSTESS. Pray thee, Sir John, let it be but twenty nobles;
  LUCETTA. Sir Valentine's page; and sent, I think, from Proteus.
    That you might see your shadow. I have heard
    Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
    stand; ruminaies like an hostess that hath no arithmetic but her
    The noble house o' th' Marcians; from whence came
  SOMERSET. Rear up his body; wring him by the nose.
    think me a swallow, an arrow, or a bullet? Have I, in my poor and

    Carouse full measure to her maidenhead;
    But not take in the mind.
  KING JOHN. What art thou?
    I hold it fit that we shake hands and part;
  BASSANIO. Here is the money.
    No father owning it- which is indeed
  CRESSIDA. 'Twas one's that lov'd me better than you will.
     'Alack, why does he so?'
  WINCHESTER. Nay, stand thou back; I will not budge a foot.
    Had gone to gaze on Cleopatra too,
    Take no repulse, whatever she doth say;
  Bora. Be you constant in the accusation, and my cunning shall not
    know not what else to do, I'll see thee again.
  DESDEMONA. Then would to God that I had never seen't!
    For I had then laid wormwood to my dug,
    Groan so in perpetuity than be cur'd
  Rom. I am too sore enpierced with his shaft
    Than one condemn'd by the King's own mouth, thereon
    To one consent, may work contrariously;
    One noble man that hath one spark of fire
  Pedro. Well, as time shall try.
  BOTTOM. Masters, you ought to consider with yourself to bring in-
    And yet a place of high respect with me,
    I did confess it, and exactly begg'd
    Or, like to men proud of destruction,
ACT V. SCENE 1.
    sir, I do not care for you. If that be to care for nothing, sir,
    They only now come but to feast thine eyes.
  CAESAR. About the Mount Misenum.
  GARDINER. I did, Sir Thomas, and left him at primero
    laugh'd that it pass'd.


  OLIVIA. Tell me your mind.
                                            [Climbs into a tree]  
    Since once I sat upon a promontory,  

    As it behooves my daughter and your honour.
    He to be Earl Marshal. You may read the rest.
  MESSENGER. The news is, sir, the Volsces are in arms.
    Either his gracious promise, which you might,  
    Thin settled age his sables and his weeds,
    Could put into them. My breeding was, sir, as

  MACBETH. Who can be wise, amazed, temperate and furious,
    other is not a thing for sale, and only the gift of the gods.
    The like of him. Know'st thou this country?
    As if you were a god, to punish; not
    A kneaded clod; and the delighted spirit
    Yea, strike the Dauphin blind to look on us.
    As to expend your time with us awhile
    As two spent swimmers that do cling together
    TIMON of Athens
  Leon. What would you with me, honest neighbour?
    Forgive the comment that my passion made
  Hero. I may say so when I please.
  North. Imagination of some great exploit

    To her go I, a jolly thriving wooer.
    What is that curtsy worth? or those doves' eyes,
meeting a bleeding Sergeant.
    A saucy stranger in his court to mart  

    We are their parents and original.
    An idiot holds his bauble for a god,
                      Enter Citizens.
    Come, come, and lay him in his father's arms.
  HECTOR. I would they could.

  Edm. Persuade me to the murther of your lordship;

    I have received letters from great Rome
    About it; for it stands me much upon
    The very instant that I saw you, did
    Go you with me, uncle of Exeter.                      Exeunt

    that I might have thee hang'd. Thou hast drawn my shoulder out of
    That seeks despatch by day.
    We had conceiv'd against him. Maria writ
    And vice sometime's by action dignified.
    than to fernseed for your walking invisible.
    The running of one glass.
    An if my word be sterling yet in England,
  VALENTINE. And, as we walk along, I dare be bold
  HOSTESS. Thou atomy, thou!
    The sciences that should become our country;
    She that so young could give out such a seeming,
    But 'twould offend him; and in his offence
    Without our ears. Thou art not what thou seem'st.
    Than in the glass of Pandar's praise may be,
  Hor. My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
  QUEEN. Be woe for me, more wretched than he is.
    By inch-meal a disease! His spirits hear me,
                                  [Exeunt Benedick and Leonato.]  

    Even to the utmost grain; that you shall read
    Before his chaps be stain'd with crimson blood,
Venice. A street.
  LUCIUS. Away with him, and make a fire straight;
  BAPTISTA. I follow you.                                 Exeunt
  that brings any man to answer it that breaks his band; on
  Ham. There's letters seal'd; and my two schoolfellows,
                                                          Exeunt
    they sought the remedy- and in these degrees have they made pair
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Upon my life, by some device or other
  DUKE. Here comes the Countess; now heaven walks on earth.
    thou shalt enjoy her- therefore make money. A pox of drowning
  KING HENRY. If Richard will be true, not that alone
    Stain'd with the guiltless blood of innocents,
 Exit
  SECOND LORD. How mightily sometimes we make us comforts of our
    'Tis well, Lavinia, that thou hast no hands;
     his revenue.' My son Edgar! Had he a hand to write this? a heart
  FALSTAFF. Let him be damn'd, like the Glutton; pray God his tongue
    was his pleasure should be proclaimed. All offices are open, and
    Our valour is to chase what flies; our cage
  Is poorly imitated after you,
  POMPEY. Sir, your honour cannot come to that yet.
    such a word.
    To this debate that bleedeth at our doors,
  Thou wilt restore to be my comfort still:
    render it him, and leaves nothing undone that may fully discover
    Is Clarence, Henry, and his son young Edward,
<Exeunt ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE and DROMIO OF SYRACUSE
    and I retell thee again and again, I hate the Moor. My cause is
  THIRD OUTLAW. Ay, by my beard, will we; for he is a proper man.
    In workmanship and value; which I wonder'd
  POMPEY. This health to Lepidus!
  AUDREY. Do you wish, then, that the gods had made me poetical?
    thou art dead and rotten, come hither. What ail'st thou, man?
    The ambitious ocean swell and rage and foam
                                           [Giving another coin]
    you are like to be much advanc'd; he hath known you but three
    To kiss in private?
    I pray for heartily, that it may find
                 Enter a company of soldiers
  SPEED. Launce! by mine honesty, welcome to Padua.
    And I should be obscur'd.
  OLIVER, son of Sir Rowland de Boys
    To take my life. Two of these fellows you
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Such short-liv'd wits do wither as they grow.  
    onions nor garlic, for we are to utter sweet breath; and I do not
    six or seven dozen of Scots at a breakfast, washes his hands, and
    Assemble we immediate council. Pompey
  ROSALINE. The blood of youth burns not with such excess  
    Might I a son and daughter now have look'd on,
  YORK. Give me my boots, I say; saddle my horse.
    For heaven now bids me; and the words I utter
  JULIA. Peace, stand aside; the company parts.
    Which we more hunt for than the grace of God!
    All made of passion, and all made of wishes;
    Is Beaufort term'd a kite? Where are his talons?  
  FORD. I would you knew Ford, sir, that you might avoid him
    Pope Innocent, I do demand of thee.  
    That sets them on. Let me have way, my lord,
    Can tie the gall up in the slanderous tongue?
    York doth present himself unto your Highness.
    An earthly paragon! Behold divineness
    Stand up, stand up! Stand, an you be a man.
  CADE. I have thought upon it; it shall be so. Away, burn all the

      Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
                                                  [Exit Vintner.]
    Whose heads stood in their breasts? which now we find

     I will go seek the King.
  Nurse. O holy friar, O, tell me, holy friar
  PROTEUS. But now he parted hence to embark for Milan.
  MACBETH. Geese, villain?  
  SIR TOBY. O, peace! And the spirit of humours intimate reading
    Fall, and no more. And, to atone your fears
    walk towards him? I will make your peace with him if I can.  
    The juice of it on sleeping eyelids laid
    But mightier crimes are laid unto your charge,
  ALCIBIADES. Honour, health, and compassion, to the Senate!
    thrust at your belly.
    Impairing Henry, strength'ning misproud York.
    Lo, as the bark that hath discharg'd her fraught
    The beauty of her person to the people.
    And make high majesty look like itself,
    And let confusion live. Plagues incident to men,
    But him outlive, and die a violent death.
    Who cannot err, he did it. Now this follows,
    The multiplying villainies of nature
  ANTONY. And fair words to them.
  NORFOLK. A good direction, warlike sovereign.
    Which I disdaining scorn'd, and craved death
    Upon advice, hath drawn my love from her;


  CYMBELINE. He was a prince.
                       Enter THYREUS
    King Pepin, which deposed Childeric,
    And if she chance to nod I'll rail and brawl  
    Gentle Lucetta, fit me with such weeds

    Ratcliff!

    And neither by treason nor hostility
    With vile participation. Not an eye
    'From their abominable and beastly touches

    poor; for th' effusion of our blood, the muster of his kingdom
    What 'twere to kill a father; so should Fleance.
  ALONSO.  [To FERDINAND and MIRANDA]  Give me your
    Allowing him a breath, a little scene,
  JAQUES. By my troth, I was seeking for a fool when I found you.
    The very heart of kindness.
    We were dissever'd. Hastily lead away.                Exeunt
  GLOUCESTER. [Aside] Ay, good leave have you; for you will have
    lordship's entertainment.
    sprites.
    I gave it freely ever; and there's none
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
ACT Il. SCENE 1
  GLOUCESTER. At Crosby House, there shall you find us both.  
    Dear lady daughter, peace!- Sweet sovereign,
    Enough then for your wonder. But come on,

and TITUS going before, pleading
Enter PANDARUS and CRESSIDA

    And I will boot thee with what gift beside
    That could be found.
  HUNTSMEN

    Should solder up the rift.
    With gentle breath, calm look, knees humbly bow'd-  
  SHALLOW. Mistress Anne, my cousin loves you.
    The remembrance of her father never approaches her heart but the
    Go, say I sent thee forth to purchase honour,
    And unregarded age in corners thrown.
    What further comes.
    And for my means, I'll husband them so well
    I will enforce it eas'ly to my love.
  LADY MACBETH. There are two lodged together.
    Still climbing trees in the Hesperides?
THE END
    But every man betake him to his legs.
    I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
    And let the Emperor dandle him for his own.
    of him; but should I anatomize him to thee as he is, I must blush
Scene IV.
    With strong and mighty preparation.
    It may be I shall otherwise bethink me.
    Than drops of blood were in my father's veins.
    Puts bars between the owners and their rights;

    And slain the noblest prisoner of the Goths.
    Tell you the lady what she is to do
  IMOGEN. Most like-
    With caution, that the Florentine will move us
    From eaves of reeds. Your charm so strongly works 'em
    already.
    There goes the Talbot, with his colours spread,
    What thou deniest to men; let prisons swallow 'em,
  OLIVIA. Get him to bed, and let his hurt be look'd to.
    After the battle let George Stanley die.
    Ensear thy fertile and conceptious womb,
    Those provinces these arms of mine did conquer;
    Would bear thee from the knowledge of thyself  
    But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.

  MESSENGER. The Emperor calls Canidius.
  IAGO. Sir, would she give you so much of her lips
    Else ruin combat with their palaces!
    To-morrow or next day they will be here.
     He is return'd.
       Re-enter OFFICERS with ISABELLA; and PROVOST with the
  BERTRAM. Change it, change it;
    How have I been behaved, that he might stick
    I put it in the pocket of my gown.
    I nam'd my knell, whilst I sit meditating
    plot, good friends, and full of expectation; an excellent plot,
    For practising to steal away a lady,
    As if she sat in's heart; she says all men
  LADY MACBETH. If he had been forgotten,
  MESSENGER. He's married, madam.  
  GLOUCESTER. A greater gift than that I'll give my cousin.
    So every scope by the immoderate use
  FIRST CITIZEN. No, no; by God's good grace, his son shall
  CHARMIAN. Be comforted, dear madam.
    For our first merriment hath made thee jealous.
                             Enter LORENZO
  leave battering, I had rather have it a head. An you use
    Thou dar'st not this, and that to prove more fortunes

    As in a vault, an ancient receptacle

    Make work upon ourselves, for heaven or hell.
    O'er your content these strong necessities,
           Quail, crush, conclude, and quell.
  HORTENSIO. SO Will I, Signior Gremio; but a word, I pray. Though
  PROSPERO. Hast thou, spirit,
                          Enter PISANIO
    No, if a Scot would save his soul, he shall not.
    And what offence it is to flout his friends.
    Must either punish me, not being believ'd,  
    I am not bound to that all slaves are free to.
    And the flesh'd soldier, rough and hard of heart,
                             Enter IDEN
    give regard to you. Farewell; and come with better music.
    counterfeit too, and rise? By my faith, I am afraid he would
    A woman, that is like a German clock,
    Damn'd in the first beginners!- gan to look
    Set on.                        Exeunt the KING and his train
    More than in words?
    With ruder terms, such as my wit affords
  KING RICHARD. Fair cousin, you debase your princely knee
    And to the Roman empire, promising
    But boldly stand and front him to his face.
    terms.
  I see thy age and dangers make thee dote.
    This is thy sheath; there rest, and let me die.
    emulous factions and bleed to death upon. Now the dry serpigo on
    Would he not be a comfort to our travel?
    To signify that rebels there are up
    Let's purge this choler without letting blood-  
    By God's fair ordinance conjoin together!
  HORTENSIO. Content.
  EXETER. Dispatch us with all speed, lest that our king
  BAPTISTA. I have a daughter, sir, call'd Katherina.
    They will bring all, whose spiritual counsel had,
  PAROLLES. A most harsh one, and not to be understood without bloody
    Acquainted me with interest to this land,
    bring her to trial. Thine, in all compliments of devoted and
     Who cover faults, at last shame them derides.
                      Enter PATROCLUS
  KING RICHARD. Northumberland, thou ladder wherewithal
    Masking the business from the common eye
    Will she not forth?
  Ham. Why, I will fight with him upon this theme


    That man might ne'er be wretched for his mind.          Exit
    Thou, thou, Lysander, thou hast given her rhymes,
    Under the colour of commending him
    And say I am Revenge, sent from below
    I will speak daggers to her, but use none.

  HECTOR. Pause, if thou wilt.

    to your heart. It is the only thing for a qualm.
  Pol. What follows then, my lord?
    Since when, his oath is broke; for, as I hear,
  MAMILLIUS, his son, the young Prince of Sicilia
    Hath given me this. Now gather, and surmise.
  KATHARINE. Yet swear not, lest ye be forsworn again.
    As his own state and ours- 'tis to be chid
    Sound on into the drowsy race of night;
  CONSTABLE. Dieu de batailles! where have they this mettle?
    One that ne'er dream'd a joy beyond his pleasure,
    Fore all the Greekish heads, which with one voice
    And set me on the proof. So the gods bless me,
     For him that brought it. Wretched though I seem,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  SPEED. Why, she hath given you a letter.
    Their images I loved, I view in thee,
    Expedient manage must be made, my liege,
    And chastise with the valor of my tongue
    I cannot instantly raise up the gross

    'Thus dost thou hear the Nemean lion roar


    We two will leave you; but at dinner-time,
    But with my heart the other eye doth see.


    Go in, Bianca.                                   Exit BIANCA  
    How are we park'd and bounded in a pale
SCENE III.
    Wont, through a secret grate of iron bars
    I prithee tell me; cram's with praise, and make's


  Fal. Well,
  BRABANTIO.               I pray you, hear her speak.
  CLEOPATRA. O, never was there queen
    Whose fault is this?
    Nay, be thou sure I'll well requite thy kindness,
  DAVY. Now, sir, a new link to the bucket must needs be had; and,
    drown? Have you a mind to sink?
    My half-supp'd sword, that frankly would have fed,
    Among the infinite doings of the world,
    And his disciples only envy at-
                      Enter DEMETRIUS

  CONSTANCE. Thou art not holy to belie me so.
  HASTINGS. Marry, that with no man here he is offended;
    was a miracle to scape suffocation. And in the height of
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    stream of his life, and the business he hath helmed, must, upon a
  A torment thrice three-fold thus to be crossed:
                                           Exeunt all but Lucius
SCENE X.
  Than that, which on thy humour doth depend.
    This story shall the good man teach his son;
    Now thou art gone, we have no staff, no stay.
    All fancy-sick she is and pale of cheer,
Troy. Before PRIAM'S palace
    My thoughts were like unbridled children, grown
    If it be well to live; but better 'twere
  SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  Yet so my fancy may be satisfied,
    Make us Thy ministers of chastisement,
    the issue?
  LAVINIA. Under your patience, gentle Emperess,

                          Enter Sailors.
    child.
  Ant. Well, I am glad that all things sort so well.
    The battles of the Lord of Hosts he fought;
  HELENA. I do affect a sorrow indeed, but I have it too.
    Have lost, or do not learn for want of time,
  Laer. Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
    As infinite as imminent! But I'll be true.
  Ham. So much for this, sir; now shall you see the other.
    Which, when I know that boasting is an honor,
  SEBASTIAN. Go to, go to, thou art a foolish fellow; let me be clear
    Till we can clear these ambiguities  
    Thy lewd, pestiferous, and dissentious pranks,
     Not fear still to be taken. I know his heart.
    Come, let us in, and with all speed provide
     for him that he hath writ this to feel my affection to your
    Though you and all the rest, so grossly led,
  POSTHUMUS. Your Italy contains none so accomplish'd a courtier to
    they call the place, a very dangerous flat and fatal, where the

  ANGELO. Stay a little while. [To ISABELLA] Y'are welcome; what's
Enter BOLINGBROKE as King, PERCY, and other LORDS
    This candle burns not clear. 'Tis I must snuff it;
  SPEED.  [Aside]  O excellent motion! O exceeding puppet!
  Samp. My naked weapon is out. Quarrel! I will back thee.

    pull'd down?
    he that hits me, let him be clapp'd on the shoulder and call'd
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Correction and instruction must both work
    What is between you? Give me up the truth.
  CLOTEN. Give me thy hand; here's my purse. Hast any of thy late
    Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
    In earnest, shall I say?  
    thee away. Farewell. When thou hast leisure, say thy prayers;
  CRESSIDA. Good uncle, I beseech you, on my knees I beseech you,
SCENE IV.
    Now took your brother's life; or, to redeem him,
  SOMERSET. Judge you, my Lord of Warwick, then, between us.
    Of this good day and of this gracious meeting  
    would make thee my lady.
    I see her beautiful.
    What authority surfeits on would relieve us; if they would yield
    Some tricks of desperation. All but mariners
  GLOUCESTER. Faint-hearted Woodville, prizest him fore me?
  Romeo, son to Montague.
    Shalt see me once more strike at Tullus' face.  
    Troilus for a copper nose.
  TITUS. Look round about the wicked streets of Rome,
    With my confineless harms.
    Authority so weighty.
  Kent. Come, sir, arise, away! I'll teach you differences. Away,

  FIRST SOLDIER. If your life be saved, will you undertake to betray
    Ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep
    That govern us below.

  GREMIO. To cart her rather. She's too rough for me.
    But I am truest speaker! You call'd me brother,
    That she, poor wretch, for grief can speak no more;
    Thy temples should be planted presently
    The worst that man can breathe,
  POLIXENES. Methinks a father

    O, then be bold to say Bassanio's dead!
  And situation with those dancing chips,
  KING. Madam, I was.
  Bring it, I pray you, to the Porpentine;
    Rid me these villains from your companies.
    Fall to them as you find your stomach serves you.
  Why should false painting imitate his cheek,
                   Enter PISTOL, BARDOLPH, and PAGE
    danc'd, and under that was I born. Cousins, God give you joy!
  HENRY, PRINCE OF WALES, afterwards HENRY
    And wear it as a favour; and with that
    Whereof you cannot easily purge yourself.
    In Hermia's love I yield you up my part;
    For if he'll do as he is made to do,
Enter JESSICA and LAUNCELOT
    children should know any wickedness. Old folks, you
  EUPHRONIUS. Ay, my lord.
    These tears are my sweet Rutland's obsequies;
    Because I am so dwarfish and so low?  
Enter STANLEY and SIR CHRISTOPHER URSWICK
    Even in the lusty haviour of his son.
  CLEOPATRA. Lead me.

    Is it?
    Renowned for their deeds as far from home,
  SHALLOW. It doth so.
  Nurse. Look, look! O heavy day!
    To furnish thee to Belmont to fair Portia.
    By being seldom seen, I could not stir
    To set a form upon that indigest

  ANGELO. Dispose of her
    And duly waited for my coming forth.
    To say you have seen a better.
  GENTLEWOMAN. That, sir, which I will not report after her.
    In the preferment of the eldest sister.
    and crush a cup of wine. Rest you merry!               Exit.
                     brother
    I am a villain; yet I lie, I am not.
  CLOWN. Nay, I am for all waters.
    Which I protest against- I am assisted
  CASSIUS. Him and his worth and our great need of him
    But first I'll do my errand. The good Queen,
  CASCA. You speak to Casca, and to such a man
    One of the three to share it?
  DEMETRIUS. Ay, boy, grow ye so brave?              [They draw]
DUKE. It shall not need; thy father hath his life.
  LUCILIUS. With courtesy and with respect enough,  
  SIR TOBY. [Rising] Out o' tune, sir! Ye lie. Art any more than a
    And make a monster of you.
    His radiant roof. Away! and, to be blest,
    Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
    And all the clouds that lour'd upon our house
    Of those that claim their offices this day,
  CLIFFORD. He is a traitor; let him to the Tower,


  MALVOLIO. I extend my hand to him thus, quenching my familiar smile
                                                  He goeth down.
  TIMON. Women nearest; but men, men are the things themselves. What
    Of capital treason I attach you both.
    When I did love you ill? This has no holding,
    quarrels, and dissensions, and, I warrant you, it is the better
  OTHELLO. That which I gave you.
    I for a Clarence weep, so doth not she.
    Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places  
    Has deserv'd prison, then abound in tears
    Thou factious Duke of York, descend my throne
    I sell thee poison; thou hast sold me none.
    Such shaping fantasies, that apprehend
    tell one.
    To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
    Of you, my noble cousin Buckingham,  
    Duty, and zeal, to your unmatched mind,
    More flowers I noted, yet I none could see,
    satisfy my remembrance the more strongly.
  PUBLIUS. Good morrow,Caesar.

  SILVIUS. If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
    sheep-cote!- all deaths are too few, the sharpest too easy.
NESTOR, and others
    Prefer them hither; for to cunning men
    To gild refined gold, to paint the lily,
  GLOUCESTER. Let him thank me that holp to send him

               [Beatrice hides in the arbour].

    And the free maids that weave their thread with bones,
  CAESAR. Since I saw you last
GAOLER. I will, my lord.
  ARIEL. Before you can say 'come' and 'go,'
    As under privilege of age to brag
    Crowned in Paris, in despite of foes?
Enter CRESSIDA and her man ALEXANDER
    And thus upbraided it: 'The care on thee depending
    Like rats that ravin down their proper bane,
    The Lords of Ross, Beaumond, and Willoughby,
    This happy child did I get anything.
    But stay, here come the gardeners.
    a ravisher, so it cannot be denied but peace is a great maker of
  WOLSEY. And for me,
    Set roaring war. To the dread rattling thunder
  APEMANTUS. Ay.
    She is the weeping welkin, I the earth;
    And give it way. I know thou canst not choose.
With QUEEN MARGARET, OXFORD, and SOMERSET, prisoners
  Beat. For the letter that begins them all, H.
    And, Montague, come you this afternoon,

  CADE. I thank you, good people- there shall be no money; all shall
    The peril of our curses fight on thee
    In heavy satisfaction, and would never
    To keep his anger still in motion.
  LADY MACBETH. To bed, to bed; there's knocking at the gate. Come,
                       Enter LORD HASTINGS
    And so break off; the day is almost spent.
    Hast thou or word, or wit, or impudence,
    conjur'd me beyond them, and I must needs appear.
Scene V.
    I would not be ambitious in my wish
  When other petty griefs have done their spite,
    And I do fearfully believe 'tis done  
  GRIFFITH. Yes, madam; but I think your Grace,
    In their own fashion, like a merriment.
  PAGE.  [Within]  Who's there?
    charged my brother, on his blessing, to breed me well; and there
  ELBOW. Faith, sir, few of any wit in such matters; as they are
Enter CONSTANCE, ARTHUR, and SALISBURY
    bond-slave?
    Come, tie his body to my horse's tail;
  OTHELLO. Dost thou say so?
    Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
  ROBIN, page to Falstaff
    It would allay the burning quality
    With all my heart I'll send the Emperor my hand.
  HELEN. Let thy song be love. This love will undo us all. O Cupid,
  Gon. Come, sir,
    Where for this many hundred years the bones

    "Fear not, Macbeth; no man that's born of woman
    Nor how to be contented with one wife,
    For never yet one hour in his bed
    Of what your reverence shall incite us to.
    Your fortune stood upon the caskets there,
    That I have been thus pleasant with you both.
    Am bold to show myself a forward guest

    Jesu Maria! What a deal of brine
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
                 Enter JAQUES de BOYS
    How covert matters may be best disclosed,
  That you were once unkind befriends me now,
    But yet not stay, entreat me how you can.
    Now, by the honour of my ancestry,

    Our radiant Queen hates sluts and sluttery.
Sicilia. The palace of LEONTES
    and most prepost'rous event that draweth from my snow-white pen
  Leon. Good morrow, Prince; good morrow, Claudio.

  HERMIA. Sweet, do not scorn her so.
  FIRST SENATOR. Then, worthy Marcius,
     Peruse this letter. Nothing almost sees miracles

  How now, sir, is your merry humour alter'd?
  FIRST LORD. It is the Count Rousillon, my good lord,
    My father's rough and envious disposition
    Begins to swell, and the approaching tide
  Ben. Stop there, stop there!
    The enterprise is sick! How could communities,
    another; 'Whip him out' says the third; 'Hang him up' says the
    Can curses pierce the clouds and enter heaven?
    All at one cast? to set so rich a man
    Her madness hath the oddest frame of sense,

  Fool. Thou wast a pretty fellow when thou hadst no need to care for  
  LAFEU. Very hand of heaven.
    And purchase friends, and give to courtezans,
  GRUMIO. Nay, 'tis no matter, sir, what he 'leges in Latin. If this
    But then Aufidius was within my view,
    Strew good luck, ouphes, on every sacred room,
    Emilia, though he be thy husband. How say you, Cassio? Is he not
    Wherein it doth impair the seeing sense,
  Religious love put out religion's eye.
    What is decreed must be; and be this so!                Exit
    That is now answer'd.
  COMINIUS. Though I could wish
  BELARIUS. [To GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS] Though you did love this
  ALEXAS. Show him your hand.
   His hours fill'd up with riots, banquets, sports;
    badge of pusillanimity and cowardice; but the sherris warms it,
    truer than you purpos'd.
    Of their dead bodies!
    And bid him speak to me of patience.

    Call in the letters patents that he hath
    have a jest to execute that I cannot manage alone. Falstaff,  
    With what he would say, let him feel your sword,
at his post; then] Bernardo, [who approaches him].

    Before-
    'Romeo is banished'- to speak that word
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    In God's name cheerly on, courageous friends,
   So great an object. Can this cockpit hold
  KING. The fairest hand I ever touch'd! O beauty,
            And I a maid at your window,
  Hero. Fie upon thee! art not ashamed?
    But will suspect 'twas he that made the slaughter?
  PROSPERO.  [Aside]  It goes on, I see,
    That art to me as secret and as dear
    This was her first remembrance from the Moor.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  PROTEUS. Nay, in that you are astray: 'twere best pound you.
  TIMON. O, Apemantus, you are welcome.
  VOLUMNIA. Why, I pray you?
    Of a night-brawler? Give me answer to it.
    When we have soil'd them; nor the remainder viands
    As made the things more rich. Their perfume lost,
  Fal. By the Lord, I'll be a traitor then, when thou art king.
  BEROWNE. Tell her we measure them by weary steps.
    Adoption strives with nature, and choice breeds
    And what have kings that privates have not too,
    Hungary's!
    absolutely resolve you. Come away; it is almost clear dawn.

    Far be it we should honour such as these
  Kept hearts in liveries, but mine own was free,
  MACBETH. Being unprepared,
  BASTARD. Speed then to take advantage of the field.
ACT III. SCENE 4.
     Did hate thee, or thy father!
    Alike bewitched by the charm of looks;
    You have congreeted, let it not disgrace me
  Hor. Ay, my lord.
  MESSENGER. For the best turn i' th' bed.


ADRIANA. It was the copy of our conference.
  STEPHANO. Didst thou not say he lied?  

  AJAX. If I might in entreaties find success,
    I'll have our Michael Cassio on the hip,
    Then lays his finger on his temple; straight
  BOLINGBROKE. Good aunt, stand up.
  LUCIUS. Dead, if you will; but not to be his wife,
    We'll all present ourselves; dis-horn the spirit,
    But be extirped from our provinces.
  Ham. Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?  
    Yea, noise? Then I'll be brief. O happy dagger!
    And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
    Led by th' impartial conduct of my soul;
    Who lets go by no vantages that may

    How it doth grieve me that thy head is here!  
  Edm. How comes that?
  CINNA. I am glad on't. What a fearful night is this!
  Kent. I know you. Where's the King?
    Will not sustain it.

    For here, I hope, begins our lasting joy.             Exeunt
    Than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy.
    And blown with restless violence round about
    Much upon this it is; [To BOYET] and might not you
    give, lest your deities be despised. Lend to each man enough,

    Who never promiseth but he means to pay.
    And do intend to make her Queen of England.
    That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing,
    How more unfortunate than all living women
next them, two SCRIBES, in the habit of doctors; after them,
    Contemptuous base-born callet as she is,
    chambers, and in the coffers, and in the presses, heaven forgive
  MAECENAS. His taints and honours
  HELEN. Nay, but, my lord-  
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    As beaten hence by your strange lunacy.
    He flouted us downright.
    the Tiltyard; and then he burst his head for crowding among the
    Which never labour'd in their minds till now;
  MENENIUS. What should I do?
  ABBOT. My lord,
    On the tabor to the Worthies, and let them dance the hay.
                                                       Exit Roderigo.
Alarum. Enter the DUKE OF YORK
  Mer. That's as much as to say, such a case as yours constrains a
  BUCKINGHAM. Well, let them rest. Come hither, Catesby.
  Hor. Custom hath made it in him a Property of easiness.
    To melt the city leads upon your pates,
             Re-enter MARIA, with SIR TOBY and FABIAN
    Deserve we no more reverence?
     (As fear not but you shall), show her this ring,
    To ruffle in the commonwealth of Rome.
    Till in her ashes she lie buried.
  ELBOW. If it please your honour, I am the poor Duke's constable,
    knave; which notwithstanding, thou shalt be no less esteemed.

    But thou the King. Woe doth the heavier sit
    No bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay,
    You are deceiv'd; for what I mean to do  
                                             Stocks brought out.
    Good angels guard thy battle! Live and flourish!
    That changes thus his manners.
    the deed of saying is quite out of use. To promise is most
  KING. Those girls of Italy, take heed of them;
    Although my seal be stamped in his face.
    If we do fear this body hath a tail
    liked.
    Doth very foolishly, although he smart,
    Than I will wrong such honorable men.
                           Enter LORD STANLEY
              Thus to make poor females mad.
    I would not, so with love I might entreat you,  
    The native act and figure of my heart
     Hysterica passio! Down, thou climbing sorrow!
            Come unto these yellow sands,
  WESTMORELAND. The Prince is here at hand. Pleaseth your lordship
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  Than I stand debted to this gentleman.
    You call'd me dog; and for these courtesies
  DUKE OF VENICE. This letter from Bellario doth commend
  BATES. Then I would he were here alone; so should he be sure to be
  DIOMEDES. Fair Lady Cressid,
    That turns their countenances.
    A little I can read.
    But-
  Prince. Go hide thee behind the arras. The rest walk, up above.
    To-morrow do I meet thee, fell as death;
    I free you from't. You are not to be taught  
    be incontinent before marriage. They are in the very wrath of  
    if you be out, sir, I can mend you.  
  ELINOR. I like thee well. Wilt thou forsake thy fortune,
    But wherefore stand'st thou with thy weapon drawn?  
    I hold me highly honoured of your Grace,
    'Twixt you there's difference; but the fall of either
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  Alb. Stay yet; hear reason. Edmund, I arrest thee
    am not of your element; you shall know more hereafter.
  She was new lodged and newly deified.
  SUFFOLK. There's order given for her coronation;

    With these your white enchanting fingers touch'd,
  Unless thou take that honour from thy name:
    So bravely done, so rich, that it did strive
  Enswathed and sealed to curious secrecy.
    True ornaments to know a holy man.
  CLEOPATRA. Celerity is never more admir'd
                         Enter CAIUS
  HELEN. Commend me to your niece.
    as LUCENTIO, with his boy, BIONDELLO, bearing a lute and books
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Sir, he din'd with her there, at the Porpentine.
  EXETER. Well didst thou, Richard, to suppress thy voice;
    Him vile that was your garland. What's the matter

                     Enter PUCK with a broom
    We will in France, by God's grace, play a set
  PRINCE HUMPHREY. No, my good lord, he is in presence here.
    That all their eyes may bear those tokens home
    And is Aufidius with him? You are they

    It comes upon me. Art thou anything?  
    Comment appelez-vous le col?
    Nestor, and that same dog-fox, Ulysses -is not prov'd worth a
    Now all the service I require of them
  SECOND CITIZEN. So did we all. But come, let's home.
    And in these fits I leave them, while I visit
    she uses thee kindly; but thou liest in thy throat; that is not
    Hath promis'd me to help me to another,
     Lest it may mar your fortunes.  
    And stop their mouths if they begin to cry.             Exit
  VERNON. Stay, lords and gentlemen, and pluck no more
  WARWICK. And I'll keep London with my soldiers.
    There will the lovely Roman ladies troop;
    Be pilot to me, and thy places shall
  SOMERSET. Hath not thy rose a thorn, Plantagenet?
                     Enter YOUNG CLIFFORD
    equivocator with lechery: it makes him, and it mars him; it sets
  HUBERT. My lord?
    According to the phrase or the addition
    There is some sap in this.
    Since thou deniest the gentle King to speak.
  BRUTUS. Good countrymen, let me depart alone,
    Which with the heart there cools, and ne'er returneth
    That every Roman bears, and nobly bears,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    The gold I give thee will I melt and pour
    Therefore, fair Hermia, question your desires,
    For lovers ever run before the clock.

  PISTOL. An oath of mickle might; and fury shall abate.
  Edm. Sir, you speak nobly.  
    (As both of you, God pardon it! have done)
  Claud. That.
    So 'tis our will he should.
    The heads of Brocas and Sir Bennet Seely;
  NORFOLK. I am sorry
    From that great face of war, whose several ranges
    With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
    Warwick and Talbot, Salisbury and Gloucester-
Before the Duke of Albany's Palace.
    The way it takes, cracking ten thousand curbs
           Who doth ambition shun,
  Whose influence is thine, and born of thee,
  SPEED. Ay, but hearken, sir; though the chameleon Love can feed on
  VIOLA. After him I love
    When you disgrac'd me in my embassade,
    The household of the King.
    bemoil'd, how he left her with the horse upon her, how he beat me
  Hor. Two nights together had these gentlemen

    'Tis known to you he is mine enemy;
  TITUS. Good Lord, how like the Empress' sons they are!
      Enter BAPTISTA with his two daughters, KATHERINA
    One that made means to come by what he hath,
    I can speak to him, I will open my lips in vain, or discover his
  NATHANIEL. All things is ready. How near is our master?

    To play the broker in mine own behalf;
     His way to Dover.  
  Friar. You say you do not know the lady's mind.


  DUKE SENIOR. Now, my co-mates and brothers in exile,

    Of his great name and estimation,
                Brabantio appears above, at a window.
    Namely, to Derby, Hastings, Buckingham;
    When your own Percy, when my heart's dear Harry,
  POMPEY. I have fair meanings, sir.
    Cousin of Hereford, what dost thou object

    Till the fresh taste be taken from that clearness,
    And such barren plants are set before us that we thankful should
    up, Sir John.
    The net has fall'n upon me! I shall perish
    buried in highways, out of all sanctified limit, as a desperate
  IAGO.                     [Aside.] O, you are well tuned now!
      Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
    Till that the nature of your fault be known
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. When you then were here,
  DESDEMONA. My lord?  
    Being a murderer, though he were my brother.  
    I have, and most unwillingly, of late
    That thus he marcheth with thee arm in arm?
  IRAS. O the good gods!
  DUKE. When must he die?
    Hath Romeo slain himself? Say thou but 'I,'
    what shall poor men do? For me, I am here a Windsor
  GENTLEWOMAN. Directly.
    If you did know for whom I gave the ring,
    Then have we here young Dizy, and young Master Deepvow, and
    devise to send me on; I will fetch you a toothpicker now from the  
    That he his high authority abus'd,
    Have stoop'd my neck under your injuries
  POINS. Go to; I stand the push of your one thing that you will
    Which flashes now a phoenix. Get you gone.
    Which heaven shall take in nature of a fee;
    You'll find a most unfit time to disturb him.
  LIEUTENANT. Walter-
    And in the end being rescu'd, I have seen
  POSTHUMUS. Not any; but abide the change of time,
    Who will not change a raven for a dove?
     in a light. Yet you see how this world goes.
    He'll soon find means to make the body follow.
    Whom I would save, had a most noble father.
  Poins. [within] Anon, anon, sir.
    I'll now taste of thy drug.                  [Swallows some]
  CONSTABLE. It is the best horse of Europe.
    So good a lady that no tongue could ever
  KING HENRY. My Lord of Warwick, hear but one word:
    There's few or none do know me; if they did,
    At Eltham Place I told your Majesty.
  Citizen. Which way ran he that kill'd Mercutio?
    And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
    To think these spirits?
  PLAYERS

    Upon the north side of this pleasant chase;
    And practicing upon his peace and quiet
    We hold our time too precious to be spent
    What more?
    He was much fam'd.

    Which you knew none of yours. What might you think?
  POMPEY. You have made me offer
    To dive like buckets in concealed wells,
    As wild Medea young Absyrtus did;
  CARDINAL BOURCHIER, ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
  SERVANT. Falstaff, an't please your lordship.
  MALVOLIO. Calling my officers about me, in my branch'd velvet gown,
  SILVIA. I wait upon his pleasure. Come, Sir Thurio,
    May turn by fortune from the weaker band.  
    Draw the huge bottoms through the furrowed sea,
    The lineal state and glory of the land!  

    good plays prove the better by the help of good epilogues. What a
    Ascribes the glory of his conquest got
  COMINIUS. Breathe you, my friends. Well fought; we are come off
  CAMILLO. O miserable lady! But, for me,
  Glend. Come, come, Lord Mortimer. You are as slow
  TALBOT. My gracious Prince, and honourable peers,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Come, Dromio, come, these jests are out of season;
    Whiles England shall have generation.
                        Enter Morton
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  Edg. [aside] And yet I must.- Bless thy sweet eyes, they bleed.
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
  KING HENRY. My crown is in my heart, not on my head;
    That all th' abhorred things o' th' earth amend  
    I am dejected; I am not able to answer the Welsh flannel;
  PAROLLES. You are too old, sir; let it satisfy you, you are too
  KING RICHARD. Give me another horse. Bind up my wounds.
    I never swore this lady such an oath.
  CLEOPATRA. To th' monument!
    To follow this fair corse unto her grave.
  BRUTUS. Get you hence instantly, and tell those friends
    greatness back?
    Wilt thou aspire to guide the heavenly car,
    That smiles his cheek in years and knows the trick
  BEROWNE. The spring is near, when green geese are a-breeding.  
    Did I go through a tempest dropping fire.
  KING RICHARD. Why, uncle, thou hast many years to live.
  King. And can you by no drift of circumstance
    Ran mad for sorrow. That made me to fear;

    Made friends of them, jointing their force 'gainst Caesar,
    If such a one will smile and stroke his beard,
    Norfolk?
    Might in thy palace perish Margaret.
    And this way comes he with it presently;
A banqueting hall in TIMON'S house
                   Re-enter LAFEU with HELENA
    That pitiful rumour may report my flight
                             and weapons.
  DUKE OF BEDFORD,       "     "  "    "
  I grant thou wert not married to my muse,
  PROSPERO. I'll deliver all;

    And set them on Lud's Town.
    be by Christian example? Why, revenge. The villainy you teach me
  GLOUCESTER. It is a quarrel most unnatural,
  MESSENGER. Let me endure your wrath, if't be not so.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Though we upon this mountain's basis by
    Whate'er falls more. We must to horse again;
  QUEEN MARGARET. What, weeping-ripe, my Lord Northumberland?
    reck'ning, sir.
  LUCETTA. Ay; and melodious were it, would you sing it.
    How terrible in constant resolution,
    will these hands neer be clean? No more o' that, my lord, no more
  PISANIO. Then, madam,
  MIRANDA. Beseech you, father!
    I would the college of the Cardinals
    Mangles true judgment, and bereaves the state
  COSTARD. The party is gone, fellow Hector, she is gone; she is two
Venice, and PORTIA'S house at Belmont
    Three Judases, each one thrice worse than Judas!
  SECOND CITIZEN. Give him a statue with his ancestors.
  ESCALUS. Double and treble admonition, and still forfeit in the
    Yea, like the stag when snow the pasture sheets,

    He- to give fear to use and liberty,
    God help the wicked! If to be old and merry be a sin, then many
    villain, that fights by the book of arithmetic! Why the devil
    but the best is, he lives not in them.
  MERCHANT. [Looking at the jewel] 'Tis a good form.
    Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
    The cicatrice and capable impressure
Enter QUEEN, LADIES, and CORNELIUS
  DOLABELLA. I understand not, madam.
  SICINIUS. Where is this viper
    Is not so long as is a tedious tale.
    And it shall please me well. For mine own part,
    And were I strong, I would not shun their fury.
    We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes,
    I pray, awake, sir. If you love the maid,
    Hath here cut off my lord. To write and read
    What you profess.
    And hide me with a dead man in his shroud-
    Alas, their love may be call'd appetite-
                                     Exit BEROWNE. LADIES Unmask
           And we'll strive to please you every day.
    We shall begin our ancient bickerings.
  ADAM. Master, go on; and I will follow the
  PAULINA. Let him that makes but trifles of his eyes
  FIRST LORD. So please you, sir, their speed
    Whom, you may say, if't please you, Fleance kill'd,
    In fine, delivers me to fill the time,  

    I have spoke already, and it is provided;
    Hence with thy stripes, be gone.                Exit THYREUS
  BOTTOM. I had rather have a handful or two of dried peas. But, I  
    As I do now. For whiles this honest fool
    With falsehood, cowardice, and poor descent-
    O, what a fall was there, my countrymen!
    When you went onward on this ended action,
    prayers,
    No, no, my sovereign, Gloucester is a man  
  M. Wife. Thou shalt not stir one foot to seek a foe.
SCENE II.
    Else surely his had equall'd.
    And food for-                                        [Dies.]
    What says the married woman? You may go.
    I'll not remember you of my own lord,
    Which is our honour, bitter torture shall
    Give me your hand and say you will be mine,
    Too much the rein; the strongest oaths are straw
    somewhat near the door, he should be a brazier by his
               By this you shall not know;
  That never object pleasing in thine eye,
ADRIANA. Patience unmov'd! no marvel though she pause:
    Expecting ever when some envious surge
  LUCIUS. Thy name?
    In cypress chests my arras counterpoints,
  TOUCHSTONE. Come, shepherd, let us make an honourable retreat;  
    you not a moist eye, a dry hand, a yellow cheek, a white beard, a
    Though other things grow fair against the sun,
Enter CHORUS
  Ham. Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform
    Shall in the general censure take corruption
    As makes it light or heavy in the substance,
    Then take we down his load and turn him off,
  DOLL. Do, an thou dar'st for thy heart. An thou dost, I'll canvass


    Under your promis'd pardon. The subjects' grief
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD, GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and soldiers
    Upon my party! Thou cold-blooded slave,
  NESTOR. Ha!
ACT IV. SCENE 1.
    He counsels a divorce, a loss of her
  Such cherubins as your sweet self resemble,
    shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing
    That need must needs infer this principle-
  Ham. You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more
  ARIEL. That's my noble master!

    There shouldst thou find one heinous article,
    you nine year.
    Sparkles this stone as it was wont, or is't not

    My father nam'd me Autolycus; who, being, I as am, litter'd under
    Lordings, farewell; and say, when I am gone,

    agree with it, I would desire you to eat it.
    O, torture me no more! I will confess.
  BRAKENBURY. Right well, dear madam. By your patience,
  HORTENSIO.  [Aside]  That will not be in haste.
    and it is bent against Caesar. If thou beest not immortal, look
  LEONTES. What with him? He comes not
     Th' untun'd and jarring senses, O, wind up
  SHYLOCK. Is it so nominated in the bond?
    I have one heart, one bosom, and one truth,
    Who saw the sun to-day?
Enter a SOLDIER in the woods, seeking TIMON
    Richmond.
    Thou know'st we work by wit and not by witchcraft,
  Hot. Why, so it would have done at the same season, if your
    Let 'em alone, and draw the curtain close;
    Enchanting all that you put in.
  CASSIUS. Yes, every man of them, and no man here
    And, as occasion serves, this noble Queen
    verses.
    And lose by over-running. Know you not
    Which shipmen do the hurricano call,
    To see this vaulted arch and the rich crop
  OLIVIA. Why, what's the matter? Does he rave?
    The mouth of passage shall we fling wide ope
    have made a shift to eat up thy holland. And God knows whether
  Con. Yea, but you must not make the full show of this till you may
  PAGE. Why yet there want not many that do fear
    Which so appearing to the common eyes,

  ENOBARBUS. 'Tis better playing with a lion's whelp
    Than I do at this hour joy o'er myself,
    What should the people do with these bald tribunes,
                                           Exeunt DUKE and LORDS
    To him that ever fears he shall be poor.
    And let belief and life encounter so
    Not I, but my affairs, have made you wait.
    Whereon, I do beseech thee, grant me this,  
    Unto whose grace our passion is as subject
    And, sheriff, I will engage my word to thee
    Do it for thy true-love take;
SCENE 3.
    To be but mirth and laughter to his Brutus,
    I am afraid; and yet I'll venture it.


  SATURNINUS. What, was she ravish'd? Tell who did the deed.
  ANTONIO. None, man; all idle; whores and knaves.
  DUKE. By heaven, fond wretch, thou know'st not what thou speak'st,

    To hurt by being just. It is as lawful,
     That thou hast power to shake my manhood thus;  
    Prevented from a damned enterprise.
    Whom angry heavens do make their minister,
    Who, even in pure and vestal modesty,
    find'st him. I would we were well rid of this knavery. If he may
  Dog. Dost thou not suspect my place? Dost thou not suspect my
  GRIFFITH. Noble madam,
    Wales that gave Amamon the bastinado, and made Lucifer cuckold,
    A fixed figure for the time of scorn
    May hang no longer on me. Throw my heart
    O my dear mother, do I see you living?
    Go, go, dispatch.
  FIRST SENATOR. These words become your lips as they pass through
    Beseech you, sir, to spare me till I may
    I were a huge man I should fear to drink at meals.
  Old Man. How now? Who's there?
  John. I heard him swear his affection.
  ANTONIO. And for three months.
    See where he lies inhearsed in the arms
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Sing still for Richard's soul. More will I do;
    mov'd mine.
    To try the vigour of them, and apply
    When the tongue's office should be prodigal
    Might from our quiet confines fright fair peace
  ELIZABETH, Queen to King Edward IV
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Which nature, love, and filial tenderness,

    Dissemble not your hatred, swear your love.
    There is no tongue hath power to curse him right.
  MARIA. That quaffing and drinking will undo you; I heard my lady
      days;
    For me, by heaven, I bid you be assur'd,
    Weeps when she sees me work, and says such baseness
    To ashes, ere our blood shall quench that fire.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  Rom. I must indeed; and therefore came I hither.
    Within these ten days if that thou beest found
  APEMANTUS. Why?
Another part of the island
    He lies before me. Dost thou understand me?
  Who I made lord of me and all I had
    But more of this hereafter. You, Diana,
    apprehension?
  FORD. I shall find you anon.
  CLEOPATRA. What have I kept back?
    Deserves a corner. Would all other women
    Cheerly, my lord. How fares your Grace?
  COSTARD. Not so, sir; under correction, sir,
    What, mak'st thou me a dullard in this act?
  FIRST GOTH. Brave slip, sprung from the great Andronicus,
                       Enter Tybalt and others.
    No richer than his honour. How he glisters
Before PROSPERO'S cell
    To lay a complot to betray thy foes.
  BEROWNE. This is he.
  SPEED. No, not so much as 'Take this for thy pains.' To testify  
  RODERIGO. I have no great devotion to the deed;
    And that same eye whose bend doth awe the world
  TRINCULO. But that the poor monster's in drink. An
    and people dislike it.
    hurt. Why, this will do Helen's heart good now, ha! Would I could
    Great Herod to incline himself to Caesar
    skull, the King's jester.
    To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!
    a good wing, and I like the wear well.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    This siren that will charm Rome's Saturnine,
  POMPEY. Why, very well; I hope here be truths. He, sir, sitting, as
    This love of theirs myself have often seen,
    Present our services to a fine new prince
    Look to thy bark. I'll not be long before
    The corn o' th' storehouse gratis, as 'twas us'd
  SUFFOLK. Before we make election, give me leave
  TRANIO. Softly, my masters! If you be gentlemen,
              Enter certain SENATORS, and pass over
    it in thy cap; when Alencon and myself were down together, I
  YORK. It would beseem the Lord Northumberland
    Shall I be married then to-morrow morning?
    My powers are crescent, and my auguring hope
    By many of these trains hath sought to win me
    Which she hath prais'd him with above compare
    in the house. And, Falstaff, you carried your guts away as
    How, with my honour, I may undertake
    FLAVIUS, steward to Timon
    Thou art as opposite to every good
  APEMANTUS. Flow this way! A brave fellow! He keeps his tides well.  
    to lament me; the world no injury, for in it I have nothing; only
    And what to her adheres, which follows after,
    Through which our policy must make a breach.
    much overborne her that my daughter is sometime afeard she will

     To show their open banner. Now to you:
    Disguise, I see thou art a wickedness
    To tear and havoc more than she can eat.
  Beat. A bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours.

    he would have been horn-mad.
    Of my good purposes, and put your children

  MRS. PAGE. What cause of suspicion? Out upon you, how
  As if by some instinct the wretch did know
         Ciitzens steal away. Exeunt all but SICINIUS and BRUTUS
    And left sweet Pyramus translated there;
    Even fall upon my life.
  FIRST WITCH. Where the place?
Enter the DUKE, the MAGNIFICOES, ANTONIO, BASSANIO, GRATIANO, SALERIO,
  TAMORA. Show me a thousand that hath done thee wrong,

  POLIXENES. Pray, good shepherd, what fair swain is this
  STEPHANO. Stand farther. Come, proceed.
    I will stir up in England some black storm
    Didst not mark that?
    Which you know cannot err. The love I bear him
  BUCKINGHAM. Who knows the Lord Protector's mind
    Who was the model of thy father's life.

  DUNCAN. Whence camest thou, worthy Thane?
  VOLUMNIA. Look, here's a letter from him; the state hath another,
    Do you go back dismay'd? 'Tis a lost fear.
    To make the service greater than the god-I
    plague of all cowards I say still!
    ordinary that the whippers are in love too. Yet I profess curing
Enter Gloucester and Edmund.
    Is mustering in his clouds on our behalf
  MRS. PAGE. Letter for letter, but that the name of Page and
  KATHERINE. Non, je reciterai a vous promptement: d'hand, de fingre,
   Never was such a sudden scholar made;
    Soldiers, adieu! I have what I would have,
    I have abandon'd Troy, left my possession,
  LORENZO. Here!  
  VIOLA. Even now, sir; on a moderate pace I have since arriv'd but
    So, when he had occasion to be seen,
  HELEN. And to make a sweet lady sad is a sour offence.


    Break open shops; nothing can you steal
    I know also life is a shuttle. I am in haste; go along with
    Sweet Clifford, hear me speak before I die.
                      How is't with you, my lord?
  Sex. Which be the malefactors?

    For the supply and profit of our hope,

  SILVIUS,     "
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY

  GRATIANO. This is the pent-house under which Lorenzo


    'Tis that he sent me of the Duke's return.
    And you shall have your bosom on this wretch,
  PROTEUS. Unhappy were you, madam, ere I came;
  MRS. PAGE. O well-a-day, Mistress Ford, having an honest
  PETER. Alas, my lord, I cannot fight; for God's sake, pity my case!
    Rend'ring faint quittance, wearied and out-breath'd,
    Than hate of Eglamour, that goes with her.              Exit
    You have defended me from imminent death.
    Pluck a hard sentence. Prithee, valiant youth,
  A FATHER that has killed his son
    To see him pass on to the Capitol.
    it, though old man, yet poor man, my father.
  PEMBROKE. Up once again; put spirit in the French;
    We have a power on foot, and I had purpose
    The King's son have I landed by himself,
  A YOUNG SON OF CLARENCE (Edward, Earl of Warwick)
    hear not what I say to you.
    will not fail her.
    Therefore my hopes, not surfeited to death,
    What letters hast thou there?- I can but thank you.  
    So like a waking. To me comes a creature,
    Hear me with patience but to speak a word.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. The dignity of this act was worth the audience of
                                       Exeunt with a dead march.
ADRIANA. Say, how grows it due?
  Ham. O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand

  WIDOW. I have told my neighbour how you have been solicited by a
     Thee I'll rake up, the post unsanctified
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Is straightway calm'd, and boarded with a pirate;
    Why look you still so stem and tragical?
  PANDARUS. Is this the generation of love: hot blood, hot thoughts,
  Queen. No, nothing but ourselves.
Enter AARON
    Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans every thing.  
    Acquaint her with the danger of my state;

    choke a daw withal. You have no stomach, signior. Fare you well.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    And his brave son being twain.
     Say you have wrong'd her, sir.
  SURREY. Sir,
    je m'estime heureux que je suis tombe entre les mains d'un
    I'll watch as long for you then. Approach;
    Or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue
    Shake in and out the rivet. And at this sport  
    A whitely wanton with a velvet brow,

                         Enter TOUCHSTONE
    army of any sort.
    Whiles night's black agents to their preys do rouse.
     To change the course. He's full of alteration
    I wander from the jewels that I love.
  LADY. Please you, madam.
  ENOBARBUS. [Aside to AGRIPPA] Will Caesar weep?
    in folly.

  OTHELLO. Heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell.
  Beat. Do, do. He'll but break a comparison or two on me; which
    'Tis certain, greatness, once fall'n out with fortune,
    Let me embrace thine age, whose honour cannot
    And would have told him half his Troy was burnt;
    But as a thing of custom. 'Tis no other,
    That pages blush'd at him, and men of heart
    A natural perspective, that is and is not.
    Be shook to airy air.
    For idleness itself.
    Send after the Duke, and appeal to him.
  ANGELO. Go to; let that be mine.
     my closet. These injuries the King now bears will be revenged
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  The porter for this time,
     You see me here, you gods, a poor old man,
  Ham. O, but she'll keep her word.
    madman.                                                 Exit
  WOLSEY. I hope I have. I am able now, methinks,  
    of his counsel.
    your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick?
     Where is thy lustre now?
  PETRUCHIO. Spoke like an officer- ha' to thee, lad.
    To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.
    And whiles the honourable captain there
  BOLINGBROKE. Bagot, forbear; thou shalt not take it up.
    How cold it struck my heart! If I do feign,
  YORK. There is my pledge; accept it, Somerset.
    Is powerful to araise King Pepin, nay,
    Enough to purchase such another island,
  PAULINA. Tell her, Emilia,
SCENE II.
    So like you 'tis the worse. Behold, my lords,
    invention? Imitari is nothing: so doth the hound his master, the
    They say 'A crafty knave does need no broker';
    She's not well married that lives married long,
    Therefore, good uncle, for my father's sake,
  ENOBARBUS. O sovereign mistress of true melancholy,  
    So fearful were they of infection.
    Grace;
    you take occasions to see leeks hereafter, I pray you mock at
    That I might hear thee call great Caesar ass
    It blots thy beauty as frosts do bite the meads,
    else- an Ebrew Jew.
    Think on thy Proteus, when thou haply seest
    The several parcels of his plate, his treasure,
    One must prove greatest. While they weigh so even,
    Than I have drawn it in my fantasy.
  SERVANT. Here, my lord, in readiness.
    would have found issue. Hear me profess sincerely: had I a dozen
  Beatrice, niece to Leonato.
  And in despite of mirth mean to be merry.
    Now my dear lady, hath mine enemies
    But do not so, I love thee in such sort,
  Reg. I pray you, sir, take patience. I have hope
    Having fully din'd before.
    As you have been- that's for my country.
    Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,
    In that nook-shotten isle of Albion.
  PORTIA. The one of them contains my picture, Prince;
  CLOWN. Apt, in good faith, very apt! Well, go thy way; if Sir Toby
    Why in that rawness left you wife and child,
    our return.
  At first the very worst of fortune's might.
    Such instigations have been often dropp'd  
  Ham. Arm'd, say you?
    That makes me reasonless to reason thus?
    man whom I have often noted in thy company, but I know not  his
        Enter GREMIO with LUCENTIO disguised as CAMBIO
    Diffusest honey drops, refreshing show'rs;
    To say my wife is fair, feeds well, loves company,
  SILVIA. Belike that now she hath enfranchis'd them
    You are the most immediate to our throne,
  LAFEU. Then my dial goes not true; I took this lark for a bunting.
    And to survey the bodies of the dead.
    Or Cytherea's breath; pale primroses,
    No wars without doors. Caesar gets money where  

  SHEPHERD. Come, your hand;
  by my long 'ears. I have served him from the hour of my
    dishonest; if he cannot, let the botcher mend him. Anything
    Of what a monarchy you are the head.
  CLARENCE. Let us withdraw into the other room.
     Show scarce so gross as beetles. Halfway down
    For that same scrubbed boy, the doctor's clerk,
Enter a company of mutinous citizens, with staves, clubs, and other weapons
    out contracted bachelors, such as had been ask'd twice on the
    And in that vow we have forsworn our books.
    May be possessed with some store of crowns;
    Writes not so tedious a style as this.

    That you shall rest but little. God forgive me!
SCENE 2
    My reformation, glitt'ring o'er my fault,
    Be thou so too, and so break off the talk,
    With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed.
                      SPRING
     The worst returns to laughter. Welcome then,
    Henry the Fifth he first train'd to the wars;
    caret. Ovidius Naso was the man. And why, indeed, 'Naso' but for
    When you depart, and save your thanks. How say you?
  ANNE. Alas, how then?
    Claudio alone; tell them that you know that Hero loves me; intend
SCENE II.
    My lord, I say! Othello!  

    But by reflection, by some other things.
    Give up yourself merely to chance and hazard

    God for his mercy, what treachery is here!

    But that I cannot do ten thousand more.
  JAQUES. Good my lord, bid him welcome. This is the motley-minded
    But shall be render'd to your public laws
  Hot. I cannot choose. Sometimes he angers me
    And hath in his effect a voice potential
  IAGO. Signior Lodovico?
    To Desdemona hath tonight caroused
  Ham. O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
    Art then forsaken, as thou went'st forlorn!  
  WARWICK. Exeter, thou art a traitor to the crown
    alone. My old dame will be undone now for one to do her husbandry
  PRINCE. Who saw the Duke of Clarence?
    Dizzy-ey'd fury and great rage of heart
    But sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes
    Shall she be placed in my constant soul.
  PROSPERO.  [Aside]  It works.  [To FERDINAND]  Come on.-
    Gnawing with thy teeth; and be this dismal sight
    With his disease of all-shunn'd poverty,
  IAGO. O, 'tis foul in her.
  CRESSIDA. Be those with swords?
  ARCHIDAMUS. Believe me, I speak as my understanding instructs me

    The ring of me to give the worthy doctor.
                                                          Exeunt
  OTHELLO. Dost thou mock me?

    His greatness is a-ripening, nips his root,
  Rom. But that a joy past joy calls out on me,
    there's the humour of it. Adieu.                    Exit Nym
  Fal. A-horseback, ye cuckoo! but afoot he will not budge a foot.

               Enter PROTEUS, and JULIA in boy's clothes
    How does thine ague?
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Let me have it;
  Nurse. Marry, that, I think, be young Petruchio.
    Let in that amity which you have made;
    Unto our gentle senses.
     Obey you, love you, and most honour you.
    You will do aught- this shall you do for me:
  Clown. Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull ass will
HASTINGS, BUCKINGHAM, GREY, and others
    Ladies, you are not merry. Gentlemen,
  SHALLOW. Ay, cousin Slender, and Custalorum.
                            Re-enter BIONDELLO
  PETRUCHIO. She hath prevented me. Here, Signior Tranio,
    Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
  PORTIA. Upon the rack, Bassanio? Then confess
  MACDUFF. No, cousin, I'll to Fife.
  ALENCON. Doubtless he shrives this woman to her smock;
    Shall we call back Northumberland, and send
    Some bring the murdered body, some the murderers;


    To wash away my woeful monuments.
     Come hizzing in upon 'em-
  LUCETTA. Keep tune there still, so you will sing it out.  
  TIMON. None, but to
    To fit your fancies to your father's will,
    still.
    And he may fetch him.
    Why, so didst thou. Or are they spare in diet,
  Thy adverse party is thy advocate,
    I see report is fabulous and false.
    Do but mistake.
    Nay, stay not to expostulate; make speed;
  Fool. For you know, nuncle,
     If, till the expiration of your month,
    That runaway eyes may wink, and Romeo
    Can I make men live, whe'er they will or no?
Flourish. [Enter King and Queen, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, cum aliis.
  BOLINGBROKE. We thank thee, gentle Percy, for thy pains;
    think I have taken my last draught in this world. Here, Robin, an
    And this, indeed, O world, the heart of thee.
    the flood, lose thy voyage, and, in losing thy voyage, lose thy
    Upon the place beneath. It is twice blest:
  AJAX. I thank thee, Hector.
                       RATCLIFF, and CATESBY
     halters in his pew, set ratsbane by his porridge, made him proud
                                [PEDANT looks out of the window]
  SECOND HUNTSMAN. It would seem strange unto him when he wak'd.
    Put on thee by my lord, thou ne'er shalt see
  Ham. To this effect, sir, after what flourish your nature will.
  FIRST LORD. Upon that were my thoughts tiring when we encount'red.
    From the possession of this heavenly sight!
    Even so by love the young and tender wit
    I will be bright and shine in pearl and gold,
    And, as we hear, march on to fight with us.
    And now, to soothe your forgery and his,
    His name is Licio, born in Mantua.
                        Enter Citizens.
  LEWIS. Here; what news?
    Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
    Have put to death an hundred senators.
    Shall make it live again. Woo't thou fight well?
    drown'd; and these are devils. O, defend me!
    As flaws congealed in the spring of day.
    To the sharp'st kind of justice. Please you, sir,
    cold and settled, left the liver white and pale, which is the
    Or whether that the body public be
    All these are sav'd if thou wilt fly away.
    As thou art liegeman to us, that thou carry
    For 'twould have anger'd any heart alive
  VIOLA. No, good swabber, I am to hull here a little longer.
    Now, brother of Gloucester, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
  Ham. Never to speak of this that you have seen.
  And I my self am mortgaged to thy will,
  SECOND LORD. [Aside] You are cock and capon too; and you crow,
    And added years to his short banishment,
    What was my first? It has an elder sister,

    Is fresh about me.
    I give thee warrant of thy place, assure thee,
    'Tis time must do. Beseech your Majesty,
  OLIVIA. I would you were as I would have you be!
  ORLANDO. I will not, till I please; you shall hear me. My father


    Heat not a furnace for your foe so hot
    What though I kill'd her husband and her father?
    Not unaccompanied invest him only,

    But metal, Marcus, steel to the very back,
  DUKE SENIOR. I do remember in this shepherd boy

          Enter, above, MARCUS ANDRONICUS and TRIBUNES;
                                                     They fight.
  PAGE. My lord, 'tis but begun.
    cannot be a man with wishing; therefore I will die a woman with
    Whether till the next night she had rather stay,
                  Enter WARWICK and GLOUCESTER
  
    Or climb my palace, till from forth this place
    They'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk;
    Now are we well prepar'd to know the pleasure
    Embrace, and kiss, and take ten thousand leaves,
    For you have show'd me that which well approves

  VIOLA. I understand you, sir; 'tis well begg'd.
  FALSTAFF. Let them play. Play, sirs. Sit on my knee, Don. A rascal
    Before I positively speak in this.

    But thou dost swear only to be forsworn;
    In whom already he is well grac'd- cannot
  ORLANDO. No, fair Princess; he is the general challenger. I come
    A glass that feated them; and to the graver
     If they not thought the profits of my death
  OTHELLO. Think, my lord? By heaven, he echoes me,
    And spit upon him whilst I say he lies,
  HOLOFERNES. Most barbarous intimation! yet a kind of insinuation,
  DUKE. I protest I love the Duke as I love myself.
    see but the issue of my jealousy; if I cry out thus upon no
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    world. A plague o' both your houses! Zounds, a dog, a rat, a

    That virtuous Lady Bona, thy fair sister,
      Are summer songs for me and my aunts,
    If from the field I shall return once more
  KING EDWARD. Bring forth the gallant; let us hear him speak.
    Now while I speak this, holds his wife by th' arm
  Fal. What manner of man is he?
    And with these boys mine honour thou hast wounded.
    Here is her oath for love, her honour's pawn.
      Directly seasons him his enemy.
    Of Caesar's death.
    supplication?
    Was done to death; and more than so, my father,
    To ease their stomachs with their bitter tongues.
  LYSANDER. O, take the sense, sweet, of my innocence!
    To make these doubts all even.
  GENTLEMAN. I shall, my liege.                 Exit GENTLEMAN
    Why hast thou lost the fresh blood in thy cheeks
  Mer. That dreamers often lie.
  PANDARUS. Know you the musicians?
Rome. A street
    All that you meet are thieves. To Athens go,
    Had I sufficient skill to utter them,
Scene V.
    Great in our hope, lay our best love and credence
LUCE.  [Within]  What a coil is there, Dromio? Who are those at the gate?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Ay, that's my name.
    Within so small a time, my woman's heart
    Hath he so long held out with me, untir'd,
    To fail in the disposing of those chances
    It were convenient you had such a devil.  
    Sigh'd truer breath; but that I see thee here,

  YORK. It was, villain, ere thy hand did set it down.


    Apollo, pardon  
  CATO. Brave Titinius!
    The dream's here still. Even when I wake it is
    my boy!
    But this I know- they have demean'd themselves
  When you have bid your servant once adieu.
      Now falls on Priam.
    Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.
    quarrel, and he finds that now scarce to be worth talking of.
    For nature doth abhor to make his bed
  KATHARINE. And Longaville was for my service born.
    Till Paris was besieg'd, famish'd, and lost.
    Hath leap'd into my seat; the thought whereof
    figures and comparisons of it; as Alexander kill'd his friend
  FIRST WATCHMAN. 'Tis the Lord Hastings, the King's chiefest friend.
    That Rome is but a wilderness of tigers?
                 Enter a MESSENGER
    And bury all which yet distinctly ranges
  CAMBRIDGE. For me, the gold of France did not seduce,
    How now, worthy soldier?
    money go before, all ways do lie open.
    Ah, good Demetrius, wilt thou give him me?
    The story of that baleful burning night,
    I promise you, but for your company,
          Set less than thou throwest;

    My tongue hath wrong'd him: if it do him right,
    The instruments of darkness tell us truths,
LUCIANA. And I am witness with her that she did.
    rejoice in yours.
    With labour, and the thing she took to quench it
LUCIANA. Perhaps some merchant hath invited him,
  BAPTISTA. Go, girl, I cannot blame thee now to weep,
  MARCADE,   "     "       "  "     "      "    "
    Than most have of his age.
  And your sweet semblance to some other give.
    Where's his examination?
  MACDUFF. Fit to govern?
    Will raise your Highness such a mighty sum
    easily put it off at court. He that cannot make a leg, put off's
    Other conclusions? I will try the forces
    It follows not that she will love Sir Thurio.
    Who therewith angry, when it next came there,
    Report the feature of Octavia, her years,
  PUCK. I'll follow you; I'll lead you about a round,
  It is thyself, mine own self's better part;
             Will you buy any tape,
  TALBOT. The Earl of Bedford had a prisoner
                      Enter APEMANTUS and FOOL
               Are gone, are gone;
  AGUECHEEK. 'Slid, I'll after him again and beat him.
    Nor brass, nor stone, nor parchment, bears not one,
  FORD. Well, I promis'd you a dinner. Come, come, walk in
    time of night? Do ye make an ale-house of my lady's house, that
    Or close the wall up with our English dead.
    from me, and these detestable things put upon me.
    Then murders, treasons, and detested sins,
    I shall recount hereafter; for this present,
    Of stronger earth than others. My mother bows,
    His arched brows, his hawking eye, his curls,
    Of tyranny, and will ignoble make you,
    And, even in thy behalf, I'll thank myself
    Trimm'd up your praises with a princely tongue;
  SIR TOBY. What, what? Nay, then I must have an ounce or two of this
    Their coin upon large interest, I myself
  John. But, soft! whom have we here?
  KING RICHARD. That would I learn of you,
    Your patience and your virtue well deserves it.
ACT_3|SC_13
    God's peace! I would not lose so great an honour  
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  BUCKINGHAM. I'll to the King,
    wot of, unless they kept very good diet, as I told you-
  

    again, catch'd it again; or whether his fall enrag'd him, or how

  KING EDWARD. Lords, give us leave; I'll try this widow's wit.
    And fall upon the ground, as I do now,
  AGUECHEEK. Here comes the fool, i' faith.
    shall find me a grave man. I am peppered, I warrant, for this
    Who can be bound by any solemn vow
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    fashion she detests; and he will smile upon her, which will now
  Since I left you, mine eye is in my mind,
  Even in the eyes of all posterity

    one for superfluity, and another for use! But that the
    We'll burn his body in the holy place
    But bear me to that chamber; there I'll lie;
    Shake off their sterile curse.
    I dare assure thee that no enemy
  QUEEN. And here comes Clifford to deny their bail.
  VIOLA. You mistake, sir; I am sure no man hath any quarrel to me;
    The rod, and bird of peace, and all such emblems
    To be adjudg'd some direful slaught'ring death,
    With this same play against your nuptial.
ACT II. Scene I.
    And in this covert will we make our stand,
    Were tried by ev'ry tongue, ev'ry eye saw 'em,
  AUFIDIUS. Say, what's thy name?
    And ten to one old Joan had not gone out.
    Was fairer than his grandame, and as chaste
                                     Exeunt some with KING HENRY
    in a most fast sleep.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    The hazard of much blood.
               Enter PETRUCHIO, and HORTENSIO with meat
    Of his fair mistress. In the afternoon
    To be in anger is impiety;
    but, as they say, to hear music the general does not greatly
  JAQUES. And I have been all this day to avoid him. He is to

    The grandchild to her blood. But out, affection!
    him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
    Where you shall be an everlasting leiger.
    To bear such idleness so near the heart
    Fertile the isle, the temple much surpassing
    Than Harry Percy's wife; constant you are,
  WARWICK. But both of you were vow'd Duke Humphrey's foes;
    never have boarded me in this fury.
    But be he as he will, yet once ere night
    But now in arms you strengthen it with yours.
Flourish. Enter Caesar; Antony, for the course; Calpurnia, Portia,
  NORFOLK. Thanks, my good Lord Chamberlain.
    That ride upon the violent speed of fire,
  KING JOHN. Nay, but make haste; the better foot before.
  KING HENRY. [To LORD SAY] Farewell, my lord, trust not the Kentish
    As if I lov'd my little should be dieted
    While these do labour for their own preferment,
                                  Exeunt all but BOTTOM and PUCK
    Pretty and full of view; yea, happily, near
  LAUNCELOT. Turn up on your right hand at the next turning, but, at
    When briers shall have leaves as well as thorns
    fortune as Cassio does? A knave very voluble; no further
    Since why to love, I can allege no cause.
    So slackly guarded, and the search so slow
  LUCIO. [To ISABELLA] That's well said.
  BRUTUS. He is welcome too.
  Is it thy spirit that thou send'st from thee
  CAPTAIN. Cowardly knight! ill fortune follow thee!
    Not doing it and being done. He, most humane
  The which he will not every hour survey,
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. A man may break a word with you,
    Boys. He was my father; and he is thrice a villain that says such
  BRABANTIO. What is the reason of this terrible summons?
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    villain!
  KING RICHARD. Thy son is banish'd upon good advice,
    They have the wisdom by their wit to lose.
    to know thy face to-morrow, or to take note how many pair of silk
    cousin. I must say she is dead-and so farewell.
    I should report that which I say I saw,
    A rashness that I ever yet have shunn'd,
    her father, and his good will obtained. Name the day of marriage,
    Your laboursome and dainty trims wherein
  SIR TOBY. Ay, or I'll cudgel him, and make him cry 'O!'
  Is more than my o'erpressed defence can bide?
  The consequence is, then, thy jealous fits
    Discredit my authority with yours,
    Hark ye, lords. You see I have given her physic,
                                                   Exit [Edgar].
    Where horses have been nimbler than the sands  
  WESTMORELAND. That is intended in the general's name.  
    Till his deserts are past, begin to throw
  HORTENSIO. Gremio, 'tis now no time to vent our love.
    And though 'tis wonder that enwraps me thus,
    Why should excuse be born or ere begot?
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Why, will shall break it; will, and nothing
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    for's oath sake. Marry, he hath better bethought him of his
  And I will comment upon that offence,

    And not be Richard that hath done all this.
    That with his very heart despiseth me?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
                                                Flourish. Exeunt
    I'll ne'er be drunk whilst I live again, but in honest,
    down, or a very pleasant thing indeed and sung lamentably.
    The Earl of Douglas is discomfited;
    Then hast thou taught Hortensio to be untoward.         Exit
  ULYSSES. Achilles hath inveigled his fool from him.
  KATHERINE. Laissez, mon seigneur, laissez, laissez! Ma foi, je ne
    hast put them in prison, and because they could not read, thou
  BARDOLPH. With eggs, sir?
Fife. Macduff's castle.
  MAN. You great fellow,

  FALSTAFF. It were superfluous; for his apparel is built upon his
    I must be round with him. Now he comes from hunting.
    The leperous distilment; whose effect
    Eight hundred five. Besides, their writers say,
the gentlewomen, which was never seen before in such an assembly.
    Half an hour since brought my report.
    In drops of sorrow. Sons, kinsmen, thanes,
  Rom. Tush, thou art deceiv'd.
  Oph. Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark?
  FIRST MURDERER. Why, then he'll say we stabb'd him

  King. No place indeed should murther sanctuarize;

  CATESBY. The Princes both make high account of you-
  IAGO. O, sir, content you.
  WOLSEY. Leave me awhile.                              Exit CROMWELL
    For thy great bounty, that not only giv'st
    If worthier friends had not prevented me.
    That Alexander Iden, an esquire of Kent,
  DUKE. Pray you, let's hear.
  CHARLES. Go, take their bodies hence.
  SICINIUS. Tell not me.  

  GARDINER. Not yet, Sir Thomas Lovell. What's the matter?
    That I will work against him. Therefore your oaths
    fat knight with the great belly doublet; he was full of jests,
    You heedless joltheads and unmanner'd slaves!
  Glou. O madam, my old heart is crack'd, it's crack'd!
  ORLEANS. The sun doth gild our armour; up, my lords!
  ANTONY. To let a fellow that will take rewards,
                  France. Before Orleans


  BEROWNE. Well said, old mocker; I must needs be friends with thee.
  COMINIUS. Y'are goodly things, you voices!
    Little are we beholding to your love,
  Had made provision for her following me,
  LORENZO. Who comes so fast in silence of the night?
Enter CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO
    the King's daughter is found. Such a deal of wonder is broken out
    Silvius] I will content you if what pleases you contents you, and
    The phrase is to the matter.
    Somewhat too early for new-married ladies.
    sweet love three year. But, most esteemed greatness, will you
  BUTTS. I'll show your Grace the strangest sight-
  DICK. Nay, he can make obligations and write court-hand.

  ACHILLES. Shall Ajax fight with Hector?
  SILVIA. This evening coming.
    A woman's story at a winter's fire,

  Guil. What, my lord?
    The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
    To counterfeit oppression of such grief
    And promise them success and victory.
    They do suggest at first with heavenly shows,

ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Shall I tell you why?
    Decoct their cold blood to such valiant heat?
  MARCUS. Long live Lord Titus, my beloved brother,
  Senators, Citizens, Soldiers, Commoners, Messengers, and Servants
  DAUPHIN. Nay, the man hath no wit that cannot, from the rising of

  NATHANIEL. Sir, you have done this in the fear of God, very
    Anon comes Pyramus, sweet youth and tall,
    With variable objects, shall expel
    I'll not serve him; he is not valiant.


    Your fellow Tranio here, to save my life,
    And with dishonour laid me on the ground,
    Shall sleep no more. Macbeth shall sleep no more."
  Bal. I brought my master news of Juliet's death;
    Therefore thy earliness doth me assure
                          Enter THISBY
    lastly, they have belied a lady; thirdly, they have verified
  QUEEN. Royal sir,
SCENE II.

    O, let the vile world end
    For th' other, Sir John- let me see. Simon Shadow!
    fidelicet myself; and the three party is, lastly and
  KING RICHARD. Mine eyes are full of tears; I cannot see.

    Then, dear my liege, mine honour let me try;

    Pass'd over to the end they were created,
  Ant. This same is she, and I do give you her.
    And so your follies fight against yourself.
    To thee be worship! and thy saints for aye
    To bend the fatal instruments of war  
    If we be English deer, be then in blood;
    Come from the country to be judg'd by you
    But for my duty to your ladyship.  
  ROSALIND. Yet tell us the manner of the wrestling.
    Know you of this taxation?
    Plants with goodly burden bowing;
  Glou. My Lord of Kent. Remember him hereafter as my honourable
    How now, what news?
  Jul. Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.
            With hey, ho, the wind and the rain-
    Which are so weak of courage and in judgment  
   Urg'd by the Commons? Doth his Majesty
  LUCETTA. Then never dream on infamy, but go.
    because he hath not the gift to woo in other places; for these
    daughters will be all gentlemen born.
    his purchases, and double ones too, than the length and breadth
    And let us presently go sit in council,
  Leon. My lord, my lord,
  QUEEN MARGARET. Mount you, my lord; towards Berwick post amain.
  Lady. What is it carries you away?
                          Enter Gloucester.
    First hang the child, that he may see it sprawl-


The trumpets sound. Enter the PRINCE OF WALES, GLOUCESTER, BUCKINGHAM,
    From course requir'd; or else thou must be counted
                     131
  In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
    For he's a bastard one-had plotted with them
    If she dares trust me with her little babe,
                                                        Exit PANDARUS
    there! This is some minx's token, and I must take out the work?
    But this good comfort bring I to your Highness-
    This be Damascus; be thou cursed Cain,
  ANGELO. Teach her the way. [Exit SERVANT] O heavens!
    It is war's prize to take all vantages;


  CLOWN. By my troth, thou hast an open hand. These wise men that
SCENE III.
    It grieves my soul to leave thee unassail'd.            Exit
    Where he should find you lions, finds you hares;
    And his affections dark as Erebus.
    Have we more sons? or are we like to have?
    That those which fly before the battle ends
    be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
    For Edward, for my brother, for his sake.

    Since you provoke me, shall be most notorious.
    And hell too strong for me to buckle with.
  Oph. You are merry, my lord.
    But write her fair words still in foulest letters?
  HENRY the Fifth, thy ghost I invocate:
    For violent fires soon burn out themselves;
    The sight of any of the house of York
    Do one thing for me that I shall entreat.
    It seems not meet, nor wholesome to my place,
  Tearing of papers, breaking rings atwain,
  Lear. Ha! Goneril with a white beard? They flatter'd me like a dog,
    You sign your place and calling, in full seeming,
    Something hath been amiss- a noble nature
  HENRY, EARL OF RICHMOND, a youth
    And see how be will take it at your hands.
    Than when you left him; even now he sung.  
    And even there, methinks, an angel spake:
    horn full of good news; my master will be here ere morning.
    That starts i' th' way before thee.
  But heaven in thy creation did decree,
    The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry,
    And find our griefs heavier than our offences.
    Praising her when I am dumb.  
  Thou art as tyrannous, so as thou art,  
    alone, howsoever you speak this, to feel other men's minds;

    The execution of his wit, hands, heart,
    The Tarquin drive, when he was call'd a king.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Defy them then, or else hold close thy lips.
    Which to requite, command me while I live.
    In restless ecstasy. Duncan is in his grave;
    thou led in triumph? What, is there none of Pygmalion's images,
                    Enter PISANIO and IACHIMO

    Almost impregnable, his old ears deaf,
    That he's revengeful; and I know his sword
  FIRST LORD. They cannot be too sweet for the King's tartness.
    An suffer'd me by th' voice of slaves to be
    Were not erected by their hands from whom
  FIRST SERVANT. Wine, wine, wine! What service is here! I think our
    In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.
  Who for thy self art so unprovident.
     The other eye of Gloucester.
    To put a golden sceptre in thy hand
    hearken once again to the suit I made to thee?
    Like our strange garments, cleave not to their mould
  FIRST OFFICER. Orsino, this is that Antonio
  ARVIRAGUS. Let ordinance
  LEPIDUS. Well met here.
    know now that I am in estimation; you shall perceive that a Jack
  Glou. He calls to horse, but will I know not whither.
  ORLANDO. How if the kiss be denied?
    Take up a brace o' th' best of them; yea, the two tribunes.
    Crush him together rather than unfold

    Till then, my noble friend, chew upon this:

    To the conflicting elements expos'd,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    desire you to touch him, for his biting is immortal; those that
  Fal. Faith, for their poverty, I know, not where they had that; and
  AARON. Ay, just- a verse in Horace. Right, you have it.
  CRANMER. Most dread liege,
  PRINCE JOHN. YOU are too shallow, Hastings, much to shallow,
    But that I know love is begun by time,
    For it an archbishop.

  Gent. You shall have anything.
  AGAMEMNON. They are in action.
  MESSENGER. She is not, madam.
  MARCIUS. Five tribunes, to defend their vulgar wisdoms,
  SECOND LORD. So infinitely endear'd-
  QUEEN. 'Tis not sleepy business,
    What cannot you and I perform upon
  Samp. Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads.
    No bending knee will call thee Caesar now,
    him
  MENENIUS. This is strange.
    to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I have words
    Speaking in deeds and deedless in his tongue;
Another part of the field
  HELENA. I will not trust you, I;
    Hast thou, according to thy oath and band,
  KING RICHARD. Thou troublest me; I am not in the vein.
    Therefore 'tis meet Achilles meet not Hector.
    And wander we to see thy honest son,
Enter SIR TOBY, SIR ANDREW and FABIAN
    word stabs. If her breath were as terrible as her terminations,
    And daily graced by the Emperor;
     The mysteries of Hecate and the night;
    Or less than a just pound- be it but so much
                                                    Exit COSTARD
  SHALLOW. Ay, I think my cousin meant well.
    I care not if thou dost for me as much.
    Is't possible that my deserts to you
     To pluck the common bosom on his side
  SEBASTIAN. Do I stand there? I never had a brother;
    Are safely come to road.
    For, like an ass whose back with ingots bows,


  BASTARD. The Dauphin is preparing hitherward,
    Such as he is, full of regard and honor.
      My operant powers their functions leave to do.

    For 'Get you gone' she doth not mean 'Away!'
  POLIXENES. Dear my brother,
    If this salute my blood a jot; it faints me
  MOTH. You are a gentleman and a gamester, sir.
    Timon hath made his everlasting mansion

  SOOTHSAYER. Last night the very gods show'd me a vision-
    Shall have the leading of this foot and horse.
                    Enter Sheriff and the Carrier.
    The air of paradise did fan the house,
  Par. My lord, I would that Thursday were to-morrow.
  Ghost. I find thee apt;
    do yours for upholding the nice fashion of your country in
    For who is he whose chin is but enrich'd
    Therefore-
    My lips are no common, though several they be.
    'Mongst all foes that a friend should be the worst!
    Longer or shorter, he may be so fitted
    Before I enter'd here I call'd, and thought
    And such a deal of skimble-skamble stuff
  Alb. Thou art arm'd, Gloucester. Let the trumpet sound.
    Full thirty thousand marks of English coin.
  Bene. Lady, were you her bedfellow last night?

    Ah, that my fear were false! ah, that it were!
    I did not well, I meant well. All my services
  IMOGEN. Sir,  
    A statelier pyramis to her I'll rear
  HECTOR. What art thou, Greek? Art thou for Hector's match?
    Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms,

  Marg. Ever since you left it. Doth not my wit become me rarely?  
Verona. A public place.
    That peaceful truce shall be proclaim'd in France,

  Jul. Ay me!


    Grew shameless-desperate, open'd, in despite
  CAESAR. Good friends, go in and taste some wine with me,
    The cordial that ye bring a wretched lady-
    There's not a one of them but in his house
  ANTONY. Cleopatra-
    To whom all sores lay siege, can bear great fortune
    beware my censure, and keep your promise.
    Valiant Lord Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury,

    For that which is not in me?
    heaven prove a micher and eat blackberries? A question not to be
    tattling.
    marriage, and you shall recount their particular duties
  GLOUCESTER. Vouchsafe to wear this ring.
    Why, how now, what does Master Fenton here?
    Against to-morrow. My heart is wondrous light,
  HORTENSIO. Why, so this gallant will command the sun.
    Incapable and shallow innocents,
    in to borrow a mess of vinegar, telling us she had a good dish of

    Could not all hell afford you such a devil?
  ORLANDO. 'Tis a fault I will not change for your best virtue. I am
    To come! O, give me cord, or knife, or poison,
    Perceiv'd Northumberland did lean to him,
    Take him away; he knows I know him well.

    Gentle spectators, that I now may be
  HECTOR. Though no man lesser fears the Greeks than I,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  CRESSIDA. This is her question.
    The rather for I have some sport in hand
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. That at her hands which the King's
    To make us wonder'd at in time to come.
  BEROWNE. Because thou hast no face.
    Till we had his assistance by the hand;
London. The Parliament House

    Your children's children quits it in your age.
    peasant, and thou shalt lie with his wife. Come to me soon at
  RAMBURES. That island of England breeds very valiant creatures;
    Which we ourselves have plough'd for, sow'd, and scatter'd,
    What my estate is!
    Take it in what sense thou wilt.
    Therefore should every soldier in the wars do as every sick man
    For Gloucester's dukedom is too ominous.
    Richard not far from hence hath hid his head.
                           Enter PAGE
    O'erblows the filthy and contagious clouds
  Lear. Make no noise, make no noise; draw the curtains.
    The government of patience! You have won.
  FIRST SOLDIER. Ay; is't not strange?
    Could penetrate her uncompassionate sire-
  Laer. Do you see this, O God?
Florence. The DUKE's palace
                          Exeunt CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO
    I do bequeath my faithful services
    go sleep, if I can; if I cannot, I'll rail against all the
 Exit
    Look here upon thy brother Geffrey's face:
    abundance.
    Come, Kate, I'll have your song too.  
    And never seek for aid out of himself. Yet see,
  MACBETH. Cure her of that.
    your old virginity, is like one of our French wither'd pears: it
    If thus thou and nature can so gently part,
    That had a royal lover, took his hint;
Before Corioli
  IMOGEN. I am sorry for't, my lord.
  CLOTEN. Thou precious varlet,
    He finds thee in the stout Norweyan ranks,
    That fame may cry you aloud. I say farewell.
    indited to dinner to the Lubber's Head in Lumbert Street, to
    With whom yourself, myself, and other lords,
  CASCA. Why, for that too.
    I'll make my heaven in a lady's lap,
  KING HENRY. Cold news, Lord Somerset; but God's will be done!
                     121
    'Tis not the roundure of your old-fac'd walls  
    on a horse.
    him. I'll make him dance. Will you go, gentles?
                                                     They fight.  
  TIMON. Commend me to him; I will send his ransom;
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  BOURBON. The devil take order now! I'll to the throng.
    That pure congealed white, high Taurus' snow,
    I hold as little counsel with weak fear
    The thing I am by seeming otherwise.
  CLARENCE. If you do love my brother, hate not me;
         A pickaxe and a spade, a spade,
    His sparkling eyes, replete with wrathful fire,
    They could not speak; and so I left them both,

  STEWARD. Madam, I was very late more near her than I think she
  THERSITES. Thou art proclaim'd, a fool, I think.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    If this prove true, they'll pay for 't. By mine honour,
Enter Hotspur, Worcester, Lord Mortimer, Owen Glendower.


    Come you to seek the lamb here of the fox,
    Of our proceedings here. On th' market-place
    Think that you are upon a rock, and now
    I mean to utter it, or both yourself and me
  Jul. That may be, sir, when I may be a wife.
    Master Shallow.
  SOLDIER. By all description this should be the place.
    Who died within the year of our redemption
    father.  
    Let me request you off; our graver business
  BRUTUS. Go see this rumourer whipp'd. It cannot be
    Nay, look not big, nor stamp, nor stare, nor fret;
  ALONSO. I long
  THERSITES. And those boils did run-say so. Did not the general run
    Fit I meet them.                   [Advancing from his cave]
    I'll intermingle everything he does
    Do come to Dunsinane," and now a wood
  ANGELO. 'Tis so with me. Let us withdraw together,
    And what I want it boots not to complain.
    Did move your greatness and this noble state
  ORLANDO. And wilt thou have me?
    The good I stand on is my truth and honesty;
    That else leans on th' affair. Pray you make haste.
    With their refusal, both observe and answer
  Fal. O, I do not like that paying back! 'Tis a double labour.
  CHARMIAN. Then belike my children shall have no names.
    Let him not die. My brother had but justice,
    Sweat in this business and maintain this war?
  NATHANIEL. Sir, I praise the Lord for you, and so may my
    And call him 'madam,' do him obeisance.
  NORFOLK. As I belong to worship, and affect
              Enter HELENA and the two FRENCH GENTLEMEN
    From whose so many weights of baseness cannot
    Where we have liv'd, and so extort from's that
     A plague upon your epileptic visage!  
    Master Silence, I will not use many words with you: Fare you  
  BARDOLPH. Pray thee go down, good ancient.
    Go, lead the way; I long to see my prison.            Exeunt
  MALVOLIO. Go off; I discard you. Let me enjoy my private; go off.
  GENTLEMAN USHER. Madam, you are call'd back.
  BOLINGBROKE. Harry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby,
    To show how much thou art degenerate.
  PORTIA. I remember him well, and I remember him worthy of thy
    Go take it hence; be gone, and say no more.
  COUNTESS. YOU have discharg'd this honestly; keep it to yourself.
    That shake not though they blow perpetually.

  MRS. FORD. Shall we tell our husbands how we have serv'd
     Against the grace and person of my master,
    His head from him. I'll throw't into the creek
    may know by their trumpets.
    forbid her my house? She comes of errands, does she? We
    Make soft thy trenchant sword; for those milk paps


    That we, the sons of brave Plantagenet,
    I hope, sir, three times thrice, sir-
    Jaques Chatillon, Rambures, Vaudemont,
    If they will fight with us, bid them come down
    All comfort, joy, in this most gracious lady,
  IMOGEN. I would thou grew'st unto the shores o' th' haven,

  PROTEUS. Well, sir, here is for your pains. What said she?

  YORK. I am thine.
    an ape, more giddy in my desires than a monkey. I will weep for
    The legions now in Gallia sooner landed

    (As if some planet had unwitted men),

  FIRST LORD. I am heartily sorry that he'll be glad of this.
  PANDARUS. Hark! they are coming from the field. Shall we stand up
    As o'er-dy'd blacks, as wind, as waters- false
    To this extremity. Thy husband knew it all.
  AUMERLE. Thou dar'st not, coward, live to see that day.
    Sans witchcraft could not.
    Then let them use us well; else let them know,  
    and as mine honesty puts it to utterance.  
    love. Prove that ever I lose more blood with love than I will get
        Graves, yawn and yield your dead,
    Bestow upon the eyes of this young couple
  ELINOR. Whether hadst thou rather be a Faulconbridge,
  JAQUES. And will you, being a man of your breeding, be married
    merely monastic. And thus I cur'd him; and this way will I take
    Here lurks no treason, here no envy swells,
    Not to be pardoned, am content withal.
    forget not that I am an ass. No, thou villain, thou art full of
     This shall not be revok'd.
    Why dost thou ask again?
    and many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes

    That Cupid will impose for my neglect

  OLD LADY. Yes, troth and troth. You would not be a queen!
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Even with a treacherous fine of all your lives.
  DAUGHTER. Our fatherless distress was left unmoan'd;
    Go thou with them; and in the Emperor's court
  TIMON. Of none but such as you, and you of Timon.
    To let him slip at will.
        Enter SHEPHERD, with POLIXENES and CAMILLO, disguised;
  BIANCA. Pardon, dear father.
           Enter PETRUCHIO, KATHERINA, VINCENTIO, GRUMIO,
              Alarum, excursions. Enter LA PUCELLE
Venice. A street
    That we can call these delicate creatures ours,
  OLIVIA. I'll come to him. [Exit SERVANT] Good Maria, let this
  PAULINA. I dare be sworn.
  DUKE OF SUFFOLK
    than the love of the parties.
  King. Good Laertes,
  I was not sick of any fear from thence.
    Are less than horrible imaginings:
  BARDOLPH. Come in, woman.
    Are angels vailing clouds, or roses blown.
  Lear. Return to her, and fifty men dismiss'd?
  JOHN TALBOT, his son
    I will requite you with as good a thing;
    I did full hard forbear him. But I pray you, sir,

         with the NYMPHS in a graceful dance; towards the
  TRANIO. Well said, master; mum! and gaze your fill.
    You speedy helpers that are substitutes
    Hath newly pass'd between this youth and me.
Country near Birnam Wood. Drum and colors.
    infinite.
  CALIBAN. The dropsy drown this fool! What do you mean
  And ever, as it blaz'd, they threw on him
  PETRUCHIO. Thou hast hit it. Come, sit on me.
  WARWICK. Ten days ago I drown'd these news in tears;
  LUCIUS' SERVANT. And Sir Philotus too!
    By her, in his unlawful bed, he got
    To what we fear of death.
  COUNTESS. Yes, Helen, you might be my daughter-in-law.
    Begun through malice of the Bishop's men.
    Say, wast thou e'er contracted to this woman?
  YORK. So that, by this, you would not have him die.
  QUICKLY. And Master Slender's your master?
    I find thou art no less than fame hath bruited,
    It hath been taught us from the primal state
    As now again to snatch our palm from palm,
A street.
  Gent. Something he left imperfect in the state, which since his
    I'ld whistle her off and let her down the wind
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Nay, we must longer kneel: I am suitor.
                                 Exeunt MAYOR, BEADLE, WIFE, &c.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  Make answer Muse, wilt thou not haply say,
  IAGO.                         I do beseech you-
     Because he does not feel, feel your pow'r quickly;
    She'll hamper thee and dandle thee like a baby.
    Had so much race to put it in my mind.
    vanity in years? Wherein is he good, but to taste sack and drink
    And wherefore are you gentle, strong, and valiant?
    hath generally tax'd their whole sex withal.
    the staple of his argument. I abhor such fanatical phantasimes,
  BRANDON. Here is warrant from
  Messengers, Watch, Attendants, etc.  
    Search for a jewel that too casually  
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    To shallow rivers, to whose falls-
  Mother. What noise is here?
  Edm. I am thinking, brother, of a prediction I read this other day,

    payment into plows, I warrant you.
     Hark, the Duke's trumpets! I know not why he comes.
    Unarm'd, and unresolv'd to beat them back.
  Get thee away.

                       Enter Macduff and Lennox.
    And shut myself up in some other course
  YORK. She and the Dauphin have been juggling.

  Your cake here is warm within; you stand here in the cold;
    I render for my brethren's obsequies;
    how could Master Froth do the constable's wife any harm? I would
    And hither make, as great ambassadors
  Fal. Go hang thyself in thine own heir-apparent garters! If I be

  ARMADO. And therefore apt, because quick.
     least syllable of thy addition.
Enter Prince of Wales and Sir John Falstaff.
    I would have been abed an hour ago.
                 Nought shall go ill;
    I will not praise that purpose not to sell.
    There you shall find three of your argosies
  For a fish without a fin, there's a fowl without a feather;
  POMPEY. No, indeed, sir, not of a pin; you are therein in the
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE

    acquaintance be renewed. Peradventure I will with ye to the
    The purest spring is not so free from mud
    Lady Rosaline.
      door.                                               Exeunt
  CLIFFORD. That is my office, for my father's sake.
                                               Flourish. Exeunt.
Enter DEMETRIUS and PHILO

  FIRST SERVANT. O, yes, my lord, but very idle words;
    To wake Northumberland and warlike Siward;
  Ros. Even those you were wont to take such delight in, the
    What you have nobly done.
    Strength'ned with what apology you think
    As where's that palace whereinto foul things
    I have told him Lepidus was grown too cruel,  
    And with the deepest malice of the war


  John. I know not that, when he knows what I know.

  ISABELLA. [Kneeling] Most bounteous sir,
    You fight in justice. Then, in God's name, lords,


   And never noted in him any study,
    Therefore stay yet; thou need'st not to be gone.


    Of thy success in love, and what news else
  PROTEUS. Go, sirrah, find him out. Come, Valentine.
    she had partaken of my flesh, and cost me the dearest groans of a
    And thee after, when thou hast conquer'd!
    Gorboduc 'That that is is'; so I, being Master Parson, am Master
     To end itself by death? 'Twas yet some comfort
    For I have bills for money by exchange
    With too much riches it confound itself;
    Galen, and he is a knave besides-a cowardly knave as you
SCENE 3.
ANGELO. I know it well, sir. Lo, here is the chain.

  MENENIUS. O, true bred!
  Osr. Shall I redeliver you e'en so?
    Unless you please to enter in the castle,
    And call'd unto a cardinal's degree?
    Hath scald thee for herself. For thou hast been

    But never taint my love. I cannot say "whore."
    Have wander'd with our travers'd arms, and breath'd
    Which he confesseth to be manifold,
    And finds them perfect Richard. Sirrah, speak,
    To God, my King, and my succeeding issue,
    For though mine enemy thou hast ever been,
    Which I beseech your Highness to forgive,
  ALICE. Dat it is not be de fashion pour le ladies of France- I
    speak a good word to Mistress Anne Page for my master,
    Tell thou the lamentable tale of me,

    Save base authority from others' books.
  MRS. PAGE. Let's consult together against this greasy knight.
    With such a smooth, discreet, and stable bearing,
  Bard. Yea, two and two, Newgate fashion.
  GOBBO. Marry, God forbid! The boy was the very staff of my age, my
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. THOU drunken slave! I sent the for a rope;
    Than such as most seem yours- I say I come
    Save, from my glass, mine own; nor have I seen
    The life o' the building.
    He was much fear'd by his physicians.
    that, to my thinking, he would fain have had it. Then he offered
    And in a tedious sampler sew'd her mind;
    And his pond fish'd by his next neighbour, by
ACT I. SCENE I.
    By his best arrow, with the golden head,
  TROILUS. What now?
    To answer 'I'll not wed, I cannot love;
    And graze in commons.
    That will betime, and may by us be fitted.
    And therefore must his choice be circumscrib'd
    And power i' th' truth o' th' cause.
Athens. QUINCE'S house
    Refus'd most princely gifts, am bound to beg  
  PANDARUS. Thou must.
  Edm. How now? What's the matter?                 Parts [them].
    And come some other time to know our mind.
    He, he, and you- and you, my liege!- and I
    Where breath most breathes, even in the mouths of men.
     'twixt son and father. This villain of mine comes under the

                           SCENE VII.
    Plead what I will be, not what I have been;
    Here is a path to't; 'tis some savage hold.
    when he will, 'tis not a hair amiss yet. He may keep it still at
Rome. Before TITUS' house
  MENENIUS. I neither care for th' world nor your general; for such
    The fugitive Parthians follow; spur through Media,
  SALISBURY. Be of good comfort, Prince; for you are born
    Rome's readiest champions, repose you here in rest,
    traitorously corrupted the youth of the realm in erecting a
  Claud. I have drunk poison whiles he utter'd it.
  FORD. Bless you, sir!

    disparagements unto you, I am of the church, and will be
    Since nought so stockish, hard, and full of rage,

  ALCIBIADES. Hast thou gold yet? I'll take the gold thou givest me,
  PANDARUS. Ay, the bolting; but you must tarry the leavening.
    man may hear this show'r sing in the wind. And Falstaff's
  COSTARD. Still me?
  Nor Mars his sword, nor war's quick fire shall burn:
  Ham. Ha, ha! Are you honest?
    taking, I doubt me.
  BOLINGBROKE. In God's name, I'll ascend the regal throne.

    Even now, now, very now, an old black ram
  Let me confess that we two must be twain,
  WOLSEY. This, and all else  
    endured.
    Did not deserve corn gratis. Being i' th' war,
    courageously. Take pains; be perfect; adieu.
  FLUELLEN. My liege, here is a villain and a traitor, that, look
    And that thy summer bred us no increase,
  And prove thee virtuous, though thou art forsworn:
     Turn all her mother's pains and benefits
    thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course
  POMPEY. If the great gods be just, they shall assist
    Of our restored love and amity.
  SERVANT. Wholly, sir.
    And when you are desirous to be blest,
  Which labouring for invention bear amis
    Art turn'd the greatest liar.
  Cor. Ay, good my lord.
  ULYSSES. This challenge that the gallant Hector sends,
    And am right glad he is not standing here
    Mark you,
    And never shall you see that I will beg
                     78
   To give him hearing: is it four o'clock?
    of May next ensuing.
    And on my face he turn'd an eye of death,
    queen's lords.
    Ugly, and sland'rous to thy mother's womb,
    resemble something in me. Softly! M. O. A. I.-
  WARWICK. Be Duke of Lancaster; let him be King.  
    And do my spriting gently.
  FIRST CITIZEN. I the great toe? Why the great toe?
     You shall do small respect, show too bold malice
    And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame  
    In what have I offended you? What cause
    Where think'st thou he is now? Stands he or sits he?
  LUCIUS. Aemilius, let the Emperor give his pledges
    was but to knock at your car and beseech list'ning. Now I begin:
    In that which seems so.
    For we to-morrow hold divided councils,
    That rids our dogs of languish?
    Lord Timon will be left a naked gull,
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. God and the rope-maker bear me witness
    But that the extreme peril of the case,

    From whence shall Warwick cut the sea to France,
    Sweet scrolls to fly about the streets of Rome!
Enter PETRUCHIO and his man GRUMIO
    As I dare take a serpent by the tongue.
    Fetch us in fuel. And be quick, thou 'rt best,

    it with security. I look'd 'a should have sent me two and twenty  
                                                    Exit CATESBY
    And to the latest gasp cried out for Warwick,

  POSTHUMUS. Close by the battle, ditch'd, and wall'd with turf,  

                          Enter Gloucester.
    To see me thus transformed to a boy.
    Which often hath no less prevail'd than so
  KING HENRY. How now, Fluellen! Cam'st thou from the bridge?
  LUCETTA. That you may ruminate.                           Exit
  AJAX. An 'a be proud with me I'll pheeze his pride.
    melancholies I am! I will knog his urinals about his knave's
    the argument no longer.
    But we will make it subject to this boy.
    The dust that did offend it.
    The venomous malice of my swelling heart!
    heed of the allurement of one Count Rousillon, a foolish idle
    and I will use your skill.--Good cousin, have a care this busy
    Thus Margaret's curse falls heavy on my neck.
    There is no lady of more softer bowels,
    Caphis, I say!
    days: the King has kill'd his heart. Good husband, come home
    I fear me he will scarce be pleas'd withal.
    I am commanded home. Get you away;
                at a distance, TALBOT and his forces
    Have notice what we purpose. I shall break
    tell me if this be the lady of the house, for I never saw her. I
    Or, Signior Gremio, you, know any such,
    Led us to Rome, strangers, and more than so,
  GLOUCESTER. But he, poor man, by your first order died,
  FIRST LORD. The best of happiness, honour, and fortunes, keep with
    of that colour, methinks Samson had small reason for it. He
    to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
    Soldiers, this day have you redeem'd your lives,
    Bade me enjoy it, with the place and honours,  
    This staff of honour raught, there let it stand
    Thy father, Earl of Cambridge, then deriv'd
    Seek to divert the English purposes.
    Who with a double surety binds his followers.
    Nor other satisfaction do I crave
  PROSPERO. Shake it off. Come on,
  THIRD SERVANT. Where dwell'st thou?
    You are as welcome, worthy sir, as I
    While other jests are something rank on foot,
    Not poison any further.
    For a light wife doth make a heavy husband,
  Edm. There's my exchange [throws down a glove]. What in the world  
    As the unsullied lily, I protest,
  WARWICK. I had rather chop this hand off at a blow,
    And abstinence engenders maladies.

  KING. I am not a day of season,
    But by self-danger, you should tread a course

    When back again this ring shall be deliver'd.
    To be so pest'red with a popingay,
    To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
    I tell you true. Best you saf'd the bringer  
    And temper clay with blood of Englishmen;
                         Exeunt Worcester and Vernon, [guarded].
    When she had fitted you with her craft, to work

  ROSALINE. Only to part friends.
    As my mother was, the first hour I was born.
    came; for look here what I found on a palm-tree. I was never so
    O poor Orlando, thou art overthrown!
    Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean.
  LEONTES. Where's Bohemia? Speak.
  FALSTAFF. Fore God, would you would.
  FIRST PETITIONER. Here 'a comes, methinks, and the Queen with him.
    Many a poor man's son would have lyen still,
  BURGUNDY. Is it even so? Nay, then I see our wars
    Nor let my kingdom's rivers take their course
    Lets fall his sword before your Highness' feet,
    be wicked; and wickedness is sin, and sin is damnation. Thou art
    Laid open all your victories in Scotland,
  Love to myself, and to no love beside.

    A curse shall light upon the limbs of men;
     by th' legs. When a man's over-lusty at legs, then he wears
  GLOUCESTER. Stand back, thou manifest conspirator,
    Cold news for me, for I had hope of France,
    That say thou art a man: Diana's lip
                                                          Exeunt
  ALENCON. Must he be then as shadow of himself?
    very slow-gaited. But I go.
  PORTIA. Therefore, prepare thee to cut off the flesh.
    Old fashions please me best; I am not so nice
    shook your back.
    This earth shall have a feeling, and these stones
ACT IV. SCENE 1.
    throwing him into the water will do him a benefit.
    Their mortal natures, letting go safely by
    Tombless, with no remembrance over them.
    No ceremony that to great ones longs,
     the kingdom approach apace.
    fils Henri, Roi d'Angleterre, Heritier de France; and thus in
    march?

  And to the painted banquet bids my heart:
  Your love and pity doth th' impression fill,
    Be left her to perform. Come, follow us;

  PRINCE. But say, my lord, it were not regist'red,
  BEROWNE. [ To COSTARD] Ah, you whoreson loggerhead, you were born
  MESSENGER. I have spoke the least.
    man.  
    Have now the fatal object in my eye
    That slew the Sophy and a Persian prince,
    I am skilless of; but, by my modesty,
    Ere such another Julius. Britain is
    Ah for my husband, for my dear Lord Edward!
    Keeps thicket. Please it our great general
    To bed, to bed! Sleep kill those pretty eyes,
On a ship at sea; a tempestuous noise of thunder and lightning heard
    On twenty bloody blocks, he'd yield them up
  ANGELO, ESCALUS. Happy return be to your royal Grace!
  AGUECHEEK. As plain as I see you now.
The same.
  CLARENCE. The duty that I owe unto your Majesty
    Where is Lucentio?
  PORTIA. That cannot be.
    In such a rein, in full as proud a place
    But set them down horrible traitors. Spare not the babe
A forest near Rome
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Hie you, make haste, for it grows very late.           Exit.  
    Dissolves to water and doth lose his form.
  TITANIA. Come, wait upon him; lead him to my bower.
    I do not know the man I should avoid
    as I to-day? Wilt thou tell a monstrous lie, being but
  Gon. Sister, it is not little I have to say of what most nearly
  Lifts up his burning head, each under eye
    How now! who is it?
    That seems disgracious in the city's eye,


    gallows standing in England when thou art king? and resolution
    Yield up his life unto a world of odds.
    To tell you once again that at my birth
    And nature, as it grows again toward earth,
    But you, Sir Thurio, are not sharp enough;
  ESCALUS. He's in the right, constable; what say you to it?
    You should be satisfied.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. O, good my lord, no Latin!  
    And that no woman has; nor never none
    Is my dear son with such sour company.
    Add thus much more, that no Italian priest
    As his wise mother wrought in his behalf,
    Hark, how these instruments summon to supper!
    That their negotiations all must slack
  Enter three or four [Fellows, with spits and logs and baskets.
    The petty difference we yet not know.
    In the sick air; let not thy sword skip one.
    So looks the strand whereon the imperious flood
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Beck'ning with fiery truncheon my retire;
    Confederates all thus to dishonour me.
    Saddle my horse.
                         SCENE XI.
  SOMERSET. Here in my scabbard, meditating that
    Like an Olympian wrestling. This have I seen;
    The words of heaven: on whom it will, it will;
     And well are worth the want that you have wanted.
    Our appertainings, visiting of him.
    and strong ones; these are but switches to 'em. I'll scratch
           This realm dismantled was  
          Enter LORENZO, JESSICA, and SALERIO, a messenger
  Prince. An otter, Sir John? Why an otter?
  Edg. I thank you sir. That's all.
    Else had she with her father rang'd along.
    Put on the gown, stand naked, and entreat them
    Teach us some fence!  [To AUSTRIA]  Sirrah, were I at home,
    But tell me, where is princely Richmond now?
  OLIVIA. Ay, marry; what is he?  
  Pol. I would fain prove so. But what might you think,  
  SILVIUS. Sweet Phebe, do not scorn me; do not, Phebe.
    "Speak, strike, redress!" Am I entreated
    Has crept too near his conscience.
    As my sweet Richard. Yet again methinks
    From stubborn Turks and Tartars, never train'd  
    No use of metal, corn, or wine, or oil;
                  Camp of the DUKE OF YORK in Anjou
  SECOND HERALD. Here standeth Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
Enter in state, CYMBELINE, QUEEN, CLOTEN, and LORDS at one door,
    God and Saint George, Talbot and England's right,
  EVANS. I pray you now, remembrance to-morrow on the
                        Enter ROSALIND
  NURSE. O gentle Aaron, we are all undone!
    Let me be recorded by the righteous gods,
    Turn all to serpents! Call the slave again.
    Let him come back, that his compassion may
    To marry her, I'll add three thousand crowns
  CLOWN. Good Master Fabian, grant me another request.
    And now prepare your throats. Lavinia, come,
    Love's feeling is more soft and sensible

    That, if again this apparition come,
  CELIA. West of this place, down in the neighbour bottom.
  IAGO. A thing for me? It is a common thing-
    Are clamorous groans which strike upon my heart,  
    Hath every pelting river made so proud  
         Enter LUCIUS, IACHIMO, the SOOTHSAYER, and other
    To Brecknock while my fearful head is on!               Exit
    For pity of mine age, whose youth was spent
    That justice seizes. What knows the laws
  Queen. O my son, what theme?  
                                      [Alarum. HECTOR and AJAX fight]
    Travel you far on, or are you at the farthest?
    'Hic ibat Simois, hic est Sigeia tellus,
Enter SALISBURY, PEMBROKE, and BIGOT
  KING RICHARD. Hoyday, a riddle! neither good nor bad!
    Ye have angels' faces, but heaven knows your hearts.
    That do converse and waste the time together,
    The heaven sets spies upon us, will not have
  Admit impediments, love is not love
  PISTOL. Let us condole the knight; for, lambkins, we will live.
  ALICE. Oui. Sauf votre honneur, en verite, vous prononcez les mots
  KING EDWARD. Suppose they take offence without a cause;
    My penance is to call Lucetta back
  Pol. If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I
  Your breach of promise to the Porpentine;
    As till that time I shall not pity thee.
    After summer merrily.
    But death hath snatch'd my husband from mine arms
Troy. A street before PANDARUS' house
    In filial obligation for some term
    For soldiers' stomachs always serve them well.
    The Queen of Naples.

    That all the world will be in love with night
    And make him with our pikes and partisans
    mean to make bold withal, and, as you shall use me hereafter,  
  LEONTES. We'll part the time between's then; and in that
    He must be buried with his bretheren.
    thousand. He had some feeling of the sport; he knew the service,
           Enter SIR THOMAS LOVELL
    So honour peereth in the meanest habit.
    And if he speak of Buckingham, pray tell him
    to speak true.  
  VALENTINE. These banish'd men, that I have kept withal,
    good housekeeper goes as fairly as to say a careful man and a

      Here PROCULEIUS and two of the guard ascend the
  Fal. An if it do, take it for thy labour; an if it make twenty,
  AUTOLYCUS. O, help me, help me! Pluck but off these rags; and then,
    and the bones.
    Away, good Ned. Falstaff sweats to death
          Thus runs the world away.
    opportunity of a second conference, and I will bring from thence
    That his blood flows, or that his appetite
  Hot. Of York, is it not?
    We should infringe the holy privilege
  BUCKINGHAM. Then linger not, my lord; away, take horse.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. This field shall hold me, and so hold your vow:
    What further woe conspires against mine age?
    Was John of Gaunt, the Duke of Lancaster;
    Whose hand is that the forest bear doth lick?
    Shall she live to betray this guilt of ours-
    Who married Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March;
    You knew he walk'd o'er perils on an edge,
    Sirrah, what's thy name?
  IAGO. What, are you hurt, lieutenant?
    What with our help, what with the absent King,

Windsor. Before PAGE'S house
    Is't far you ride'!

    But what he did being childish?
  ARMADO. At your sweet pleasure, for the mountain.
    To a determin'd scope.  
    As he shall like, to quit me. Urge it thou.
  MUTIUS. Help, Lucius, help!
    For such disguise as haply shall become
  BRABANTIO. So did I yours. Good your Grace, pardon me:
    Soundly invite him- his two chamberlains
    Now, Balthasar,
    Where you shall host. Of enjoin'd penitents
    No remedy but you will- give me the office
    A lady to the worthiest sir that ever
  ROSS. Is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
  That would refuse so fair an offer'd chain.
    Is every breath a death. And thus unknown,
    That she was never yet that ever knew
    Come underneath the yoke of government.
  Glou. O lady, lady, shame would have it hid!
     put 'em i' th' paste alive. She knapp'd 'em o' th' coxcombs with
  Glou. Give me the letter, sir.
    Unto another lady of esteem.
              And lusty lads roam here and there,
    In the true course of all the question.
  CLEOPATRA. O well-divided disposition! Note him,
    Henceforth I never will be Romeo.  
                    Enter MARDIAN the eunuch

    Hoping you'll find good cause to whip them all.
    Rid all the sea of pirates; then to send
    They needs must show themselves; which in the hatching,
    His private arbors, and new-planted orchards,
    I have rememb'red me, thou's hear our counsel.
  FIRST CITIZEN. It was an answer. How apply you this?
    If I forgive him!
    And soothe the devil that I warn thee from?
    For 'tis no trusting to yond foolish lout,
    Like a fine bragging youth; and tell quaint lies,
  CORIOLANUS. Well, what then, what then?
    and finds her lover?  
  Of wealth, of filial fear, law, kindred, fame!
    And, in your power, soft silencing your son.

    His son am I; deny it if you can.
    To this their late escape.
    That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
    That I myself was to myself not mine,
    To be ungentle.  
    And say 'Alas, it was a piteous deed!'
    When I do tell thee there my hopes lie drown'd,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    And patient underbearing of his fortune,
                 Enter the BASTARD
    'Who chooseth me shall have as much as he deserves.'
    Might thus have stood begetting wonder as
    here writ. I must to the learned. In good time!
  PETRUCHIO. And yet I come not well.
      crown me
    but four here, sir; and so, I pray you, go in with me to dinner.
    When on my three-foot stool I sit and tell
    I love her ten times more than e'er I did.
    here writ, and can never find what names the writing person hath

    What, canst thou not forbear me half an hour?
    We'll lay before this town our royal bones,
    Zounds, I will speak of him, and let my soul
  CORIOLANUS. Hence, old goat!
  YORK. O my liege,  
  BOLINGBROKE. Thanks, gentle uncle. Come, lords, away,
    ta'en, I'll peach for this. An I have not ballads made on you
    Then were they chosen; in a better hour
    O, teach me how you look, and with what art
  CADE. Marry, thou ought'st not to let thy horse wear a cloak, when
    simple though I stand here.
  PROTEUS. And that, my lord, I shall be loath to do:
    Think, we had mothers; do not give advantage
    Kneel down and take my blessing, good my girl.
  John. A proper squire! And who? and who? which way looks he?
    Can ye endure to hear this arrogance?
  GRUMIO. Here's no knavery! See, to beguile the old folks, how the  

  ISABELLA. To whom should I complain? Did I tell this,
    The sisters' vows, the hours that we have spent,
    Knowing I know thy love to Theseus?

PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
                 Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
    And bid mine eyes be packing with my heart,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  IAGO. Can he be angry? I have seen the cannon,

     My Regan counsels well. Come out o' th' storm.        [Exeunt.]
    woman- which together is: abandon the society of this female; or,

  JAMY. It sall be vary gud, gud feith, gud captains bath; and I sall
    borrow of men, men would forsake the gods. Make the meat be
             Adieu, adieu, adieu.                         [Dies]
  A god in love, to whom I am confined.

  NERISSA. Sir, I would speak with you.  
    Elsinore.

  AARON. Well, God give her good rest! What hath he sent her?
    Where have you lurk'd, that you make doubt of it?
    disaster the cheeks.
  POET. I am thinking what I shall say I have provided for him. It
  (A closet never pierced with crystal eyes)
  BRUTUS. Not Possible.
  PROTEUS. Already have I been false to Valentine,
    That is not glad to see thee! You are three
    To your direction.
       Enter BRANDON, a SERGEANT-AT-ARMS before him,
    As to my ample hope was promised
                       Enter a third Gentleman.
    As letting her pass so; had I spoke with her,
    Approach me, and thou shalt be as thou wast,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  SIMPCOX. Black, forsooth; coal-black as jet.
  CAESAR. That's the next to do.
    I'll make a peace between your soul and you.
  Edg. O thou side-piercing sight!
    Of one that loved not wisely but too well;
  Lear. Take heed, sirrah- the whip.
Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and Lords.
    penitent trade than your bawd; he doth oftener ask forgiveness.
    Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh;
    Seeking a way and straying from the way
  DOLABELLA. Gentle madam, no.
  PRINCE. And to thee.
    And that is to enjoy thee for my love.
    Not like to me, or any of my kin,
    Iago, look with care about the town,

    That were a state fit for his holiness.
                         Enter Calpurnia.
    Restores his heart. When valour preys on reason,
  KING HENRY. Now sits the wind fair, and we will aboard.
    Through flinty Tartar's bosom would peep forth,
    I'll give you gold enough.
    shall speed in your journey's end, I think you'll never return to
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH, LORD RIVERS, and LORD GREY
  Commends me to the thing I cannot get.
    Even till destruction sicken, answer me
  RUTLAND. Di faciant laudis summa sit ista tuae!         [Dies]
  KING HENRY. And otherwise will Henry ne'er presume.
    And I with my long nails will dig thee pig-nuts;
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Your reason?
    The sword, the mace, the crown imperial,
    This slave-like habit and these looks of care?
    Give me my sword and cloak. Falstaff, good night.
      knee be low.
  BUCKINGHAM. Trust nobody, for fear you be betray'd.
    If die, brave death, when princes die with us!
    And sent you hither so unlike yourself?
  ARVIRAGUS. The bird is dead
    With those of nobler bulk!
  PROTEUS. One, lady, if you knew his pure heart's truth,
Flourish.  Enter LEWIS the French King, his sister BONA,
    As may be halloa'd in thy treacherous ear
    They will say 'Came you off with so little?' And great ones I
    We are not safe, Clarence; we are not safe.
  TIMON. My worthy friends, will you draw near?
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    was against a post when he was drunk. They will steal anything,
    For so I thought I was a cave-keeper,
    Each object with a joy; the counterchange

  Ros. Good my lord!
    as you are like to find him in the proof of his valour. He is
  Of mouthed graves will give thee memory,
    Wort'hily purchas'd, take my daughter. But
    not been common in my love. I will, sir, flatter my sworn
SCENE II.
  PAINTER. Nothing at this time but my visitation; only I will
    are in supposition: he hath an argosy bound to Tripolis, another
  ORLANDO. Ay, better than him I am before knows me. I know you are
    Or look'd upon this love with idle sight?
  SHEPHERD. What, art so near? If thou'lt see a thing to talk on when
  TALBOT. Madam, I have been bold to trouble you;
  One will of mine to make thy large will more.
    For often with a solemn earnestness,
    berries;
    That trace him in his line. No boasting like a fool;
  Nurse. Good heart, and I faith I will tell her as much. Lord,
    Thereby to see the minutes how they run-
    By all the everlasting gods, I'll go.
    Alack, alack, is it not like that I,
    Your spirit is too true, your fears too certain.
  BIANCA.                       Why, I pray you?
    And that which would appear offense in us,
    So did our men, heavy in Hotspur's loss,
    My Lord of Cambridge, and my kind Lord of Masham,  
    him enough.
    Such and so finely bolted didst thou seem;
  ROSALIND. Ay, marry, now unmuzzle your wisdom.
    And Montague our top-mast; what of him?
    hast men about thee that usually talk of a noun and a verb, and
    Promotion follows. If I could find example
  JUNIUS BRUTUS
    To take me to thee, as I was to him
            Whiles a wedlock-hymn we sing,
    body and soul.
  DESDEMONA. What, is he angry?
  ACHILLES. What?
    for tying his new shoes with an old riband? And yet thou wilt
  ROSALIND. SO was I when your Highness took his dukedom;
  there any ship puts forth to-night? May we be gone?
    Brutus', to Cassius'; burn all. Some to Decius' house, and some  
    Thy napkin cannot drink a tear of mine,
    you good jests of him. Pray you, uncle, tell Mistress Anne
  POINS.  [Reads]  'John Falstaff, knight'- Every man must know that  
    Signior Leonato's door; for the wedding being there tomorrow,  
Enter Cordelia, Kent, Doctor, and Gentleman.
    which is the birth, becomes excellent wit. The second property of
     To stand against the deep dread-bolted thunder?
    thee.
  MIRANDA. I do not know
    Made glorious summer by this sun of York;
    You speak a language that I understand not.
    And if not that, I bring you witnesses:
           That doth utter all men's ware-a.

    For in a minute there are many days.
    Then at my suit look graciously on him;
    Than that of common sons.
    Are now so sure that nothing can dissolve us.
    have no true debitor and creditor but it; of what's past, is, and
Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus.
    The fewest roses are cropp'd from the tree
  MRS. PAGE. If you go out in your own semblance, you die,
    Come, citizens. Zounds, I'll entreat no more.
  MAYOR OF SAINT ALBANS
    Sirs, stop their mouths, let them not speak to me;
    having come from a day-bed- where I have left Olivia sleeping-
    Wear it, enjoy it, and make much of it.

    with her, and she is sport for Jove.

    Patroclus kisses you.
  SECOND KEEPER. Here comes a man; let's stay till he be past.
    If wealthily, then happily in Padua.
  ENOBARBUS. Would we had all such wives, that the men might go to
    And lay this Angiers even with the ground;
  OLIVIA. 'What is your parentage?'
    the intellect of the letter, for the nomination of the party  
  WARWICK. Do right unto this princely Duke of York;  

    By those Welshwomen done as may not be
  PANDARUS. And Hector laugh'd.
    And most forsworn to keep what thou dost swear.

  BIONDELLO. I have seen them in the church together. God send 'em

    Take my deserts to his, and join 'em both;
    These happy masks that kiss fair ladies' brows,
  NATHANIEL. Ay, sir, and very learned.

  GRATIANO. Well, keep me company but two years moe,
    Why do fond men expose themselves to battle,
    sheep; it kills me- I a sheep. Well proved again o' my side. I
    to signify.
    By how much better than my word I am,
    Then cheer thy spirit; for know thou, Emperor,
  SERVANT. Sir, I do depend upon the lord.
    would desire you to send her your little page of all loves.
     For your good host. Pray that the right may thrive.
  DESDEMONA. My lord?
    Mend him who can. The ladies call him sweet;
  WOLSEY. Speak on, sir;
  MACBETH. Hang out our banners on the outward walls;
    The fancy out-work nature. On each side her
    And not to kiss you. A health, gentlemen!
                If the cat will after kind,  
    Upon a wrong'd- I would fain have said a maid!
    Which challenges itself as honour's born
  CORIOLANUS. Ay, not mine own desire.
    You have heard of my poor services i' th' love
    He would have given it you; but I, being in the way,
  CLIFFORD. My gracious liege, this too much lenity

                          Enter JESSICA

    And made her widow to a woeful bed?
  FORD. Ay; and as idle as she may hang together, for want of
    Chaste Dian bathing. Never saw I figures

Scene IV.
    You, his false hopes, the trust of England's honour,
    I love Lavinia more than all the world.

  THIRD CITIZEN. The noble Brutus is ascended. Silence!
  OTHELLO. I will not.
    Bonfires in France forthwith I am to make
    it, pluck off the bull's horns and set them in my forehead, and
    Of a glad father compass thee about!
    Lay not thy hands on me; forbear, I say,
    Is twice the other twain. But let us rear
    Thy hateful life.
  IAGO. Thus do I ever make my fool my purse;
    our pleasure and his penance, till our very pastime, tired out of
    The colour of her hair. Bring me word quickly.

  PROVOST. As many as you please.
    But who is here? Lysander! on the ground!
    sweet Isis, I beseech thee! And let her die too, and give him a
    Spare not for cost.
    And therefore has he closely mew'd her up,
    Longs after for the garbage.
          Arise, arise!
                                        Exit Sergeant, attended.
    Safer shall he be upon the sandy plains
    My earnest-gaping sight of thy land's view,

  PAROLLES. You had my prayers to lead them on; and to keep them on,  
  MACDUFF. I am not treacherous.
  CHIRON. An if she do, I would I were an eunuch.
    [Aside]  And pray the Roman gods confound you both!
    No vast obscurity or misty vale,
    O Cassius, if you could
  ROMAN. I am a Roman; and my services are, as you are, against 'em.
  May still seem love to me, though altered new:
  CLEOPATRA. Sink Rome, and their tongues rot
    Though they be never so ridiculous,
  SICINIUS. What more fearful?
    For my great suit so easily obtain'd.
  Be as thy presence is gracious and kind,
     May have due note of him, and of my land,  
    Mine enemy has more power.
    Put up your swords.
    Being once display'd doth fall that very hour.
    By law and process of great Nature thence
  LEONTES. Well said, Hermione.
    It honour'd him.
    Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels;  
    The statue of her mother.  
    How many goodly creatures are there here!
  KING EDWARD. Now, messenger, what letters or what news
  IMOGEN. Who? thy lord? That is my lord- Leonatus?
    But, in faith, Kate, the elder I wax, the better I shall appear:
  PETER. Blessed be your royal Grace!
  PROSPERO. I am woe for't, sir.
    I'll visit you.
  KING HENRY. Was ever king that joy'd an earthly throne

    And all too soon, I fear, the King shall rue.
    I prithee, gentle friend,
    And 'twixt the green sea and the azur'd vault
  Cries to catch her whose busy care is bent,
    But to your wishes' height advance you both.
    And to suppose her chaste! No, let me know,
    Your matrons, and your maids could not fill up
    I would have 'voided thee; but in mere spite,

  HUBERT. Why, here walk I in the black brow of night
  MOONSHINE. This lanthorn doth the horned moon present;
  CLIFFORD. You said so much before, and yet you fled.
    disposition of natures. She, having the truth of honour in her,
  LAFEU. Go to, sir; you were beaten in Italy for picking a kernel
    saved, your honour untainted, the poor Mariana advantaged, and
    I could not do withal. Then I'll repent,
          A flourish of trumpets announces the play
    Mistress of passion, sways it to the mood
    Remain there but an hour, nor speak to me:
    virtue, which he hath not, he might at some great and trusty
    Withal, bring word if Hector will to-morrow
  On whom frown'st thou that I do fawn upon,
    Than words can witness or your thoughts can guess.
  PAINTER. A piece of painting, which I do beseech
    If so your heart were touch'd with that remorse
    to disdain if you come in her presence.
    Until her husband and my lord's return.
  KING JOHN. Peace be to France, if France in peace permit
    Falstaff, and therefore more valiant being, as he is, old Jack
                          Enter CLOWN
  PETRUCHIO. I am content you shall entreat me stay;
  DUKE. That face of his I do remember well;
  ORLANDO. Did you ever cure any so?
  All. Treason! treason!
    [Reads]  'When thou canst get the ring upon my finger, which
    Let me not name it to you, you chaste stars!
    To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?
    wore it? I mean, in a sort.
  CLOWN. Misprision in the highest degree! Lady, 'Cucullus non facit
    affections, and your appetites, and your digestions, does not
  ENOBARBUS. O Sir, you had then left unseen a wonderful piece of
    He is prepar'd, and reason too he should.
  GAOLER. Come, sir, are you ready for death?
  STAFFORD. Rebellious hinds, the filth and scum of Kent,
    Thou but offend'st thy lungs to speak so loud;
Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
    The water nectar, and the rocks pure gold.
    And not be check'd.

    And almost should'red in the swallowing gulf
    Thou bid'st me beg; this begging is not strange.
    Why, that's my bawcock. What! hast smutch'd thy nose?
    To melt in showers. Thy grandsire lov'd thee well;
  LORENZO. Madam, although I speak it in your presence,
    arms;
    I'll cavil on the ninth part of a hair
  HORTENSIO. Sir, let me be so bold as ask you,
    I'll show thee some attires, and have thy counsel
  Do me the favour to dilate at full

    Shall be as welcome to the ears of Brutus
     That are to censure them.
    next room.
Westminster Hall
  JESSICA. His words were 'Farewell, mistress'; nothing else.
  SILVIA. O Valentine, this I endure for thee!            Exeunt
    daughter.
SCENE IX.
ACT I. Scene I.
    Or never be so noble as a consul,
  Wife. She's not fourteen.  
    In doing courtesies; and one in whom
    To think an English courtier may be wise,
  KING HENRY. Lords, take your places; and, I pray you all,
    Your lord, I mean- laughs from's free lungs, cries 'O,
    Rogues, hence, avaunt! vanish like hailstones, go;
    There will we mount, and thither walk on foot.
  CAESAR. Calpurnia!
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Not a penny, not a penny; you are too impatient to
  TROILUS. Still have I tarried.
           And thy father bore it.
    Not seen of late? Grant, heavens, that which I fear
    Our doctors say this is no month to bleed.
    the grove?
      two-hand sword.
  KING HENRY. But what a point, my lord, your falcon made,
ACT V. SCENE 3.

  GRUMIO. Ay, sir, they be ready; the oats have eaten the horses.
    With wondrous potency. Once more, good night;
    Made all of false-fac'd soothing. When steel grows
    As I have ever found thee honest-true,
    Bear us an errand to him.       Exeunt servants with THYREUS
    So make the choice of thy own time, for I,
    Starr'd most unluckily, is from my breast-
  SALISBURY. Lords, I will meet him at Saint Edmundsbury;
    Fight for your King, your country, and your lives;
    Do lace the severing clouds in yonder East.
    They will digest this harsh indignity.
    And by disjoining hands hell lose a soul.
    Reports the Volsces with several powers  
  her breath.
    faction. But it was a strong composure a fool could disunite!
  PAGE. This passes!
    You come in faint for want of meat, depart reeling with too much
SCENE II.
  PORTIA. Good sentences, and well pronounc'd.
    way; old Windsor way, and every way but the town way.
    Summon their general unto the wall.
  To hideous winter and confounds him there,
    Is daughter to this famous Duke of Milan,
                                              Exit [Gloucester].
  CRESSIDA. Then she's a merry Greek indeed.
    father.                             Exeunt BERTRAM and LAFEU
  ORLANDO. I hope so.
    Let them accuse me by invention; I
    Made wit with musing weak, heart sick with thought.
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING
    And feed his humour kindly as we may
    Should grieve thee more than streams of foreign gore.
    We'll visit Caliban, my slave, who never
    How well resembles it the prime of youth,
    Some that are mad if they behold a cat;
  FLUELLEN. I say I will make him eat some part of my leek, or I will
    Did not you tell me I should know the man  
  CHAMBERLAIN. Is't possible the spells of France should juggle
    And something lean to cutpurse of quick hand.
    leisure, have discredited to him, and now he is resolv'd to die.
    Divinely bent to meditation;
    Against the flint and hardness of my fault,
    'This is put forth too truly.' Besides, I have stay'd  
  DESDEMONA.                       Nay, heaven doth know.
     Exit.
     Than I and such a knave.
    Now doth it turn and ebb back to the sea,
    but in the deed devours the deed in the praise.
  YORK. Of my kind uncle, that I know will give,
     hearts? [To Edgar] You, sir- I entertain you for one of my  
  FALSTAFF. Where is it?
          In the spring time, &c.
      Margaret,
  WOLSEY. Whilst our commission from Rome is read,
  MONTANO, a Cypriot official
                   The PORTER opens the gate
  They'll suck our breath, or pinch us black and blue.
    To her whose state is such that cannot choose
    So long that nineteen zodiacs have gone round
    With some few private friends upon this coast.
    KING PHILIP OF FRANCE

    I am with both: each army hath a hand;
    Doth make your honour of his body's hue,
    servants so? Thou wert best set thy lower part where thy nose
  Ham. His beard was grizzled- no?
               M. O. A. I. doth sway my life.'
    For he hath been five thousand year a boy.
    If what I now pronounce you have found true;
  BOY. My lord, I know not, I, nor can I guess,
  SALISBURY. O Lord, have mercy on us, wretched sinners!
    Sevenfold above itself; no gift to him

    An aged princess; many days shall see her,
    Of it own fail, restraining aid to Timon,
    Come from the north; and as I came along
Britain. IMOGEN'S bedchamber in CYMBELINE'S palace; a trunk in one corner
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. Most true, if ever truth were pregnant by
    life,
  MARCUS. Lucius, I will.           [LAVINIA turns over with her
  Nurse. Weeping and wailing over Tybalt's corse.
  CHARMIAN. Many times, madam.
      Oswald, steward to Goneril.
  GREMIO. Nay, I have off'red all; I have no more;
    There was our error.
    Away before me to sweet beds of flow'rs:
    If fear hath made thee faint, as me it hath-
    Gentlemen, will you go muster men?
    Offence of mighty note; but to himself

    incites me to that in the letter. 'Cast thy humble slough,' says

    jerkin.
  BUCKINGHAM. My gracious lord, retire to Killingworth
  HOSTESS. Nay, that 'a did not.
    Now by this hand, I swear I scorn the term;
    As when thy father and myself in friendship
    There are no tricks in plain and simple faith;
    What Tranio did, myself enforc'd him to;
  FALSTAFF. Fare you well, gentle gentlemen.  [Exeunt JUSTICES]  On,
    We are to reap the harvest of his son.
    This fellow could not drown. Now, blasphemy,
    England and France might through their amity
    be up betimes; and 'diluculo surgere' thou know'st-
    That Henry liveth still; but were he dead,
  CRESSIDA. To say the truth, true and not true.
    mother should be visited upon me.
    felt to his knees, and so upward and upward, and all was as cold
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Where it shall mingle with the state of floods,
    prove a false thief; for the poor abuses of the time want
    And meet me suddenly at Salisbury.
  What to delight in, what to sorrow for.
          a chair. Enter TALBOT and BURGUNDY without;
    promise-cramm'd. You cannot feed capons so.
ACT IV. SCENE 1.
Leonato's orchard.
  SUFFOLK. Faith, I have been a truant in the law
  BERTRAM. My lord, I do confess the ring was hers.
        Moor, and others,  as many as can be. Then set down
    Bring him again: the Jack of Caesar's shall
    his face into more lines than is in the new map with the
         Enter ELBOW and OFFICERS with FROTH and POMPEY
    that you term her frail. I do nothing doubt you have store of
  IAGO. No more of drowning, do you hear?
  FIRST WITCH. I myself have all the other,
    I'll give my barony. Never talk of it.
    Of all their conference. If she find him not,
  MARIA. It's dry, sir.
    Retaining but a quantity of life,

    And shrewd and froward so beyond all measure
    Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet.
  FIRST COMMONER. Why, sir, a carpenter.
     To thee a woman's services are due;

  Glou. Ay, my good lord.
    I am a king that find thee; and I know
  Look whom she best endowed, she gave thee more;
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Certes, she did; the kitchen-vestal scorn'd you.
    it good how you dare, with what you dare, and when you dare. Do  
  Under that bond that him as fist doth bind.
    Each fair instalment, coat, and sev'ral crest,
    thou canst swim like a duck, thou art made like a
    To send for Lucius, thy thrice-valiant son,
  CLOWN. Why, 'Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Leap'd from his eyes; so looks the chafed lion
    To fly the favours of so good a king,

  CHARLES, Dauphin, and afterwards King of France
  Pedro. O day untowardly turned!
  his hair that grows bald by nature.
    And our vain blows malicious mockery.
                    Exeunt, severally, GLOUCESTER and WINCHESTER
    Cast none away. That I shall clear myself,
  SICINIUS. Not?
    And pray that I may repossess the crown.              Exeunt
    Let him depart before we need his help.
  POSTHUMUS. I will wage against your gold, gold to it. My ring I
  JULIA.  [Aside]  True; from a gentleman to a fool.
    And madam, you must call him Rudand now.
    You gentle gods, give me but this I have,
    his ribs, that there is little hope of life in him. So he serv'd
  MARGARET. Farewell, my lord. Good wishes, praise, and
                     58
The forest
    Was call'd Belarius.
    And I do hope good days and long to see.
     Are gone with him towards Dover, where they boast
  TRANIO. Master, some show to welcome us to town.
    To be commenc'd in stronds afar remote.
    Besides, his cote, his flocks, and bounds of feed,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Upon a pleasing treaty, and have hearts
    The praised of the King; who, so ennobled,
  RATCLIFF. It is, my lord.
  GEORGE. If so thou think'st, vex him with eager words.
    I know the shape of's leg; this is his hand,
  HORNER. Let it come, i' faith, and I'll pledge you all; and a fig  
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Let it not be sweet.
  FIRST CITIZEN. Stand from the hearse, stand from the body.
   As touching France- to give a greater sum
    And I will bring him to the Capitol.
    Of those effects for which I did the murther-
    The fire of rage is in him, and 'twere good
    Which in the time of Henry nam'd the Fifth
  LEONTES. To see his nobleness!
  One on another's neck do witness bear
    But not for that dream I on this strange course,
    For I had rather wink than look on them.
         Enter FORD, PAGE, CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
     How ugly didst thou in Cordelia show!
    But here comes Thurio. Now must we to her window,

     This milky gentleness and course of yours,
    all the racks in the world, I would not tell you on compulsion.

  ESCALUS. Come on, mistress; here's a gentlewoman denies all that
    Therefore use thy discretion: I had as lief thou didst break his
    Titus Andronicus, the people of Rome,
  PAGE. Now, Mistress, how chance you went not with Master
    And does the meanest chares. It were for me
    With some fine colour that may please the eye
    Than misery itself would give, rewards
  LAFEU. Farewell, pretty lady; you must hold the credit of your
    Breed, by his sufferance, more of such a kind.
    With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
    If I could temporize with my affections
    That shall distil from these two ancient urns,
    To their approvers they are people such
Enter PETRUCHIO, KATHERINA, HORTENSIO, and SERVANTS
  CASSIO. The great contention of the sea and skies
  HOSTESS. Sick of a calm; yea, good faith.
    Lavinia, live; outlive thy father's days,
    massy as his club?
Forres. The palace.
    afflicted, we two will still be the ministers.
    Trust to't, thou shalt not- on thy mother's womb
       WARWICK and the rest cry all 'Warwick! Warwick!' and
    Your fellow tribune.
     And let not women's weapons, water drops,
    What subject can give sentence on his king?
    So true, so just, and now so comfortable?
  TRANIO. 'Tis well; and hold your own, in any case,
  OTHELLO. 'Tis true; there's magic in the web of it.  
  BIANCA. Ay, but not frighted me; therefore I'll sleep again.
    Shall on them settle. You know your places well;
    Look that my staves be sound, and not too heavy.
    commanders' names; and they will learn you by rote where services
    The deputy cannot abide a whoremaster; if he be a whoremonger,
    If not, why cease you till you are so?
    If not, elsewhere they meet with charity;
      Guildenstern, and other Lords attendant, with the Guard

    In faith, I gave it to the judge's clerk.
    Weigh'd between loathness and obedience at
  Hor. It might, my lord.
    In France. 'Tis plate of rare device, and jewels  
    So was I when your Highness banish'd him.
    leave our pribbles and prabbles, and desire a marriage
    We here create thee the first Duke of Suffolk,
  Claud. I hope he be in love.
    And finish all foul thoughts. O Antony,
    addle egg.
    And either they or we must lower lie.                [Exit.]
  VALENTINE. Ruffian! let go that rude uncivil touch;
    And the division of our amity.
SCENE II.
    He, when he hears of her, cannot refrain
    You flow to great distraction; come, my lord.
  KING. Let there be no noise made, my gentle friends;
    I took 't upon mine honour thou hadst it not.
    not; and our crimes would despair if they were not cherish'd by
                          Enter LUCIO
    You may deserve of him through me, and wisdom  
    man that I love and honour with my soul, and my heart, and my
  PISTOL. Not the ill wind which blows no man to good. Sweet knight,
    Because you want the grace that others have,
  LEWIS. And mine with hers, and thine, and Margaret's.
    Tullus Aufidius, that will put you to't.
    lordship!

  Ham. Ay, sir; that soaks up the King's countenance, his rewards,  
    'Tis certain so. The Prince wooes for himself.
    Break out into a second course of mischief,
    As he cried 'Thus let be' to as much end
  And shrive you of a thousand idle pranks.

    me, thou villain, where is my son, Lucentio?
    as the day is long.
    What's this? Mutton?
    That I am guiltless of your father's death,
    No doubt we bring it to a happy issue.
    We thank you all for this great favour done
  Edm. In wisdom I should ask thy name;
    With an invisible and subtle stealth
  POMPEY. I'll be suppos'd upon a book his face is the worst thing
    Th' offences we have made you do we'll answer,
    And not my husband's secrets?
  SIR TOBY. Come hither, knight; come hither, Fabian; we'll whisper
    Since, wedding it, there is such length in grief.
    I drew to part them. In the instant came
  CLEOPATRA. He is married?
        And bear the sow-skin budget,
  LUCIO. Our doubts are traitors,
    And sometimes falling ones.

    Thou art not conquer'd. Beauty's ensign yet
  LORENZO. Sweet soul, let's in, and there expect their coming.
    And do the murder first. If he awake,

    doubleness of the benefit defends the deceit from reproof. What
    You should be Lord Ambassador from the Emperor,
    And witness of the malice and displeasure
  Pol. My lord, I will use them according to their desert.

  CASSIO. Good night, honest Iago.                              Exit.
                         Enter a BEADLE with whips


  MESSENGER. Be of good comfort; for the great supply
  ANTONY. Egypt, thou knew'st too well
  SOLDIER. Sir,
  BLANCH. Now shall I see thy love. What motive may
    Despite of suit, to see a lady's face.  
Rome. Before the palace
    And handed love as you do, I was wont
  CLOTEN. This is no answer.
  ORLANDO. Why, now; as fast as she can marry us.
    And, for the ways are dangerous to pass,
       Officers, Guards, and other Attendants; Spirits
    worship good morrow.
  RODERIGO. Every day thou daffest me with some device, Iago; and
    Was I betroth'd ere I saw Hermia.

    Employ the countenance and grace of heav'n
    This house, these servants, and this same myself,


  LUCIUS. I know not, sir.
    If thou engrossest all the griefs are thine,
    nor thou cam'st not of the blood royal if thou darest not stand
    If I could shake off but one seven years
              Alexandria. CLEOPATRA'S palace
    And is enough for both.
  QUINCE. At the Duke's oak we meet.
    To whom they are directed. If you knew
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. O yes. If any hour meet a sergeant,
    To give this poor petition to the King;
  Player. I warrant your honour.
    Which my love makes religion to obey,
  RICHARD. I know it well, Lord Warwick; blame me not.
    So do I wish the crown, being so far off;
    not care; but to be Menelaus, I would conspire against destiny.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  VALENTINE. O, I have fed upon this woe already,
  SICINIUS. 'Twere well
    To meet her new beloved anywhere;
  LAFEU. In a most weak-
  BASTARD. Philip-Sparrow! James,
    A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
  KING HENRY. What tidings with our cousin Buckingham?

     When majesty falls to folly. Reverse thy doom;
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Master, there's a bark of Epidamnum
    where a commodity of good names were to be bought. An old lord of
    as I have said, great difference betwixt our Bohemia and your

    Be patient, for the world is broad and wide.
    For all the mud in Egypt. Have you heard it?

  ULYSSES. And wake him to the answer, think you?

      the chair.
    In braving arms against thy sovereign.
    Where that same banish'd runagate doth live,

  EVANS. Oman, forbear.
    For 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd
    Forbid this bandying in Verona streets.
  LUCIO. Nay, tarry; I'll go along with thee; I can tell thee pretty
    Now, Master Doctor, have you brought those drugs?
  DESDEMONA. Believe me, I had rather have lost my purse

    rest to run away, so I will not rest till I have run some ground.
    The garboils she awak'd. At the last, best.
    They that must weigh out my afflictions,
  From where thou art, why should I haste me thence?
    cannot see how sleeping should offend. Only have a care that your
    He dies upon my scimitar's sharp point
    And in my standard bear the arms of York,
  HOST. Peace, I say, Gallia and Gaul, French and Welsh,  


 CANTERBURY. The French ambassador upon that instant
  CASSIUS. No more. Good night.
    Whom we have left protectors of the King,
  DUCHESS OF YORK, mother to King Edward IV
    The three-fold world divided, he should stand
  Bearing the wanton burden of the prime,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS

  Clown. For none neither.
    He can command, lets it straight feel the spur;
    Then, at the expiration of the year,
    That we could hear no news of his repair?
    In unknown fathoms, will I break my oath
    this play as please you; and I charge you, O men, for the love
    My father gave him welcome to the shore;
  PORTIA. Is your name Shylock?
  IACHIMO. Ay, madam, with his eyes in flood with laughter.
    Sirrah, look to 't; i' faith I will, i' faith.
  SECOND LORD. [Aside] You are a fool granted; therefore your issues,
    But every puny whipster gets my sword.
  And, privileged by age, desires to know
    that war for a placket. I have said my prayers; and devil Envy  
    It sendeth forth to skirmish. One to ten!
    knowest Sir John cannot endure an apple-john.
    Gaoler, look to him.
  SPEED. You never saw her since she was deform'd.
    Ride, ride, Messala. Let them all come down.         Exeunt.
    That English may as French, French Englishmen,
    But for the end it works to. Come, our stomachs
  SHYLOCK. I thank God, I thank God. Is it true, is it true?
    hat, a muffler, and a kerchief, and so escape.
    or weather.
    And cowardly nobles, gave way unto your clusters,
  Or sleep I now, and think I hear all this?
    Hang thou there upon the tomb,
  Wor. I told him gently of our grievances,
    without you; especially that of Cleopatra's, which wholly depends
    I am too mean a subject for thy wrath;
    Than when these fellows ran about the streets
    If Bertram be away. 'Twere all one
    Which, not to anger bent, is music and sweet fire.
    facility.
    Regent of love-rhymes, lord of folded arms,
    The Bishop and the Duke of Gloucester's men,
    The beards of Hercules and frowning Mars;

  Leon. Brother Anthony--


  The mind and sight distractedly commixed.
  GRATIANO. Nerissa, cheer yond stranger; bid her welcome.
    Who lov'd her so that, speaking of her foulness,
  VALENTINE. I thank your Grace; the gift hath made me happy.
    And worse than Progne I will be reveng'd.
     To the great love I bear you -
  POLIXENES. I may not, verily.
    After such bloody toil, we bid good night;
    you were spent.
                    Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
    Since you to non-regardance cast my faith,
    With whom I am accus'd, I do confess

    My everlasting doom of banishment.
  Doth spot the beauty of thy budding name!
Enter MENENIUS, with the two Tribunes of the people, SICINIUS and BRUTUS
    And for his ordinary pays his heart
    Respecting her that's gone. Besides, the gods
    'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
    to justle a constable. Why, thou debosh'd fish, thou,
    And have no portion in the choice myself.
  CASSIO. Rub him about the temples.
  WINCHESTER.  [Aside]  Now Winchester will not submit, I

    I hope my master's suit will be but cold,

    Who, tend'ring their own worth from where they were glass'd,
  PRINCE. By heaven, Poins, I feel me much to blame

    The fool slides o'er the ice that you should break.          Exit
  FIRST SOLDIER. Look, sir.
    For that I was his father Edward's son;

    Fain would I go to chafe his paly lips
    for ever. This lies glowing, I can tell you, and is almost mature
    profession a tinker? Ask Marian Hacket, the fat ale-wife of
    But what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
  '"Now all these hearts that do on mine depend,
    'The duke yet lives that Henry shall depose;
  I will discharge my bond, and thank you too.
    A better never did itself sustain
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
    he be. Who told you of this stranger?
    This man is better than the man he slew,
    Then spare not the old father. Mighty sir,
    That I, which know my heart, do here pronounce,
             Enter DIOMEDES, TROILUS following
    with a staff, but that my puissance holds it up. Fellow kings, I  
    Though many dearer, in this bloody fray.
     My duty kneeling, came there a reeking post,

  LORDS. Upon the stroke of four.
  FLUELLEN. Yes, certainly, and out of doubt, and out of question
Enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM, at several doors
    My parts, my title, and my perfect soul
     Almost too small for sight. The murmuring surge
                     133
  ANTONY. Then must thou needs find out new heaven, new earth.
    It makes the consuls base; and my soul aches
    Ajax commands the guard to tend on you.
    Shall for thy love kill a far truer love;
  PANDARUS. You speak your fair pleasure, sweet queen. Fair prince,
SECOND MERCHANT. I am sorry now that I did draw on him.
  Pol. That's very true, my lord.
    To take in many towns ere almost Rome
    How say you, sir? Can you deny all this?
    Do all expect that you should rouse yourself,
    So sweet a death as hanging presently.

    What, a play toward! I'll be an auditor;
    Your enemies and his find something in him.
    What are you?
  CORIOLANUS. Well then, I pray, your price o' th' consulship?
    Is not to walk in.
                                    Exeunt ANTONIO and SEBASTIAN
    To think upon the part of business which
    She's very near her hour.
    Let hell make crook'd my mind to answer it.
    a cup of sack; do you discharge upon mine hostess.
    you, Master Page; and you, Sir Hugh.
    And wild amazement hurries up and down
    found. But, O, the noble combat that 'twixt joy and sorrow was
  ORLANDO. Shall I keep your hogs, and eat husks with them? What
  SERVINGMAN. My lord, your son was gone before I came.  


    Thou little valiant, great in villainy!
                                         Exit AUTOLYCUS, Singing

    And hide the false seems true.
    and half Count John's melancholy in Signior Benedick's face--
  ANTONIO. I do never use it.
    Most humbly therefore bending to your state,
     My masters, know you that?  
  To make of monsters, and things indigest,
  FIRST MURDERER. Ay, so we will.
  POMPEY. Come.               Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS and MENAS
  Claud. And so she doth, cousin.
    He us'd us scornfully. He should have show'd us
                      Re-enter second Gentleman.
    Wert thou not beggar. Willing misery
    This above all- to thine own self be true,
    Against yourself.
  
  LUCY. But where's the great Alcides of the field,
  MOTH. No, master; the hobby-horse is but a colt, and your love
    welcome the sour cup of prosperity! Affliction may one day smile
  Drawn after you, you pattern of all those.
     More sinn'd against than sinning.
    the two.
    It doth abhor me now I speak the word;
    Since that our brother dubb'd them gentlewomen,
    There's a good grandam!
  Glou. To his father, that so tenderly and entirely loves him.
    That would with treason wound this fair land's peace!
  IMOGEN. I'll follow, sir. But first, an't please the gods,
    In very ample virtue of his father,
    after do our work.
    But stop their mouth with stubborn bits and spur 'em
  KING EDWARD. No, by my troth, I did not mean such love.
    See what I do deliver out to each,

    To brother horn an household cruelty,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  AGUECHEEK. 'Tis not the first time I have constrained one to call
  Ham. In my mind's eye, Horatio.
    His arms spread wider than a dragon's wings;
    And here she stands; touch her whoever dare;
    As thou didst leave it.
    the King?
    We must be brief when traitors brave the field.       Exeunt
    my suit?
    To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.
    This factious bandying of their favourites,
    Keep it not from me, quickly let me have it.
    Of general assault.  
  APEMANTUS. Good! gramercy.
    I am no baby, I, that with base prayers
    With better appetite.
    Upon my head they placed a fruitless crown
    hearts the poor unvirtuous fat knight shall be any further
  SLY. I thank thee; thou shalt not lose by it.
    Anne thy wife
  King. God pardon thee! Yet let me wonder, Harry,
    How shall that faith return again to earth
    Consent upon the order of their fight,
    Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Osric, and Lords, with other

    The children live whose fathers thou hast slaughter'd,
    spirit. Sometime 't appears like a lord; sometime like a lawyer;

  PHILOSTRATE. A play there is, my lord, some ten words long,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  KATHARINE. Yes, madam; and, moreover,
    And smote him, thus.                               Stabs himself.
  MARTIUS
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I owe you none till I receive the chain.
    Attended with the pleasures of the world,
    And to that youth he calls his Rosalind
    Holding Corioli in the name of Rome
    Grieve not that I am fall'n to this for you,

    Hot lavender, mints, savory, marjoram;
  QUINCE. Answer, as I call you. Nick Bottom, the weaver.
                  Exit GLOUCESTER. The QUEEN drops QUEEN her fan
    Hold then my sword, and turn away thy face,
    All preparation for a bloody siege
    Sith priest and holy water are so near,
    Daring th' event to th' teeth, are all in uproar,
    is, sir, I will counterfeit the bewitchment of some popular man
    especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter. If it live in
    But my true love is grown to such excess
                           [A long flourish till they come down]
    Did, as heir general, being descended
                 Re-enter aloft the EMPEROR
  ENOBARBUS. Madam?

    And let her joy her raven-coloured love;
    good cousin Silence?
Flourish of cornets. Enter PORTIA, with the PRINCE OF MOROCCO,
    In your retirement, I had swing'd him soundly.
  Prince. Got with much ease. Now merrily to horse.
Enter Brutus and Cassius.

  ALL. Listen, but speak not to't.
    To visit me. You know your office, brother:
  ABHORSON. What ho, Barnardine!
  CELIA. O, a good wish upon you! You will try in time, in despite of
    Obscures the show of evil? In religion,
  CROMWELL. Last, that the Lady Anne,  
    Enshrines thee in his heart, and there erects  
  Guil. In what, my dear lord?
    Extremely stretch'd and conn'd with cruel pain,
    That Rhodes is dress'd in. If we make thought of this,
    have been blown out of your gates with sighs, and conjure thee to
    And I did scorn it and disdain to fly.

    And what does else want credit, come to me,
  And all my honest faith in thee is lost.
    Selves of themselves, to your recomforture.
    When foreign princes shall be certified
    Enter the city, clip your wives, your friends,
  Claud. Thus answer I in name of Benedick
    Mistake me not, to save my life; for if
    Which we call 'mollis aer,' and 'mollis aer'
    thee, shepherd?

  FLORIZEL. Fortune speed us!  
  SIR TOBY. Then he's a rogue and a passy measures pavin. I hate a
    Clarence?
    For sorrow's eye, glazed with blinding tears,
    To this we swore our aid. But in short space
    That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
     Unfriended, new adopted to our hate,
  That others touch and, often touching, will
  EXETER. My conscience tells me he is lawful King.
    Shed thou no blood, nor cut thou less nor more
    Nor wish no less; and so I take my leave.
  Edm. Parted you in good terms? Found you no displeasure in him by
    A solemn air, and the best comforter
    That seeks to overthrow religion,
A hall in the DUKE'S palace
    For treason executed in our late king's days?
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  VINCENTIO. Ay, mistress bride, hath that awakened you?
    By that which knitteth souls and prospers loves,
    Servant, you are welcome to a worthless mistress.
    This is the English, not the Turkish court;
  ELBOW. Nay, if there be no remedy for it, but that you will needs
    The youngest daughter, whom you hearken for,
     Beweep this cause again, I'll pluck ye out,
    Is left to tyrannize upon my breast;
  BOTH MURDERERS. Ay, ay.
    What yesternight our Council did decree
    This is his claim, his threat'ning, and my message;
  VALENTINE. No Valentine, indeed, for sacred Silvia.
    this was well counterfeited. I pray you tell your brother how
    For Christian shame, put by this barbarous brawl.
    Or one that at a triumph, having vow'd
    Thinking on them, go I unto the Tower.
  But here must end the story of my life;
    And wouldst do so, I think, should we encounter
      As doth thy face through tears of mine give light.
    This day, in argument upon a case,
      'Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to him,
    You show'd your teeth like apes, and fawn'd like hounds,
1609
    Although they wear their faces to the bent

  KING RICHARD. Look what is done cannot be now amended.
    Whither, if it please you, we may now withdraw us.
                                                     [Stabs him]
  CASSIUS. 'Tis just,

    Draw near, Queen Margaret, and be a witness
                     Re-enter YOUNG CLIFFORD
  PANDARUS. Swords! anything, he cares not; an the devil come to him,
    O love! O life! not life, but love in death
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Saw'st thou not, boy, how Silver made it good
    The sessions shall proceed. This is mere falsehood.
    The obligation of our blood forbids
    question more in particular. What have you, my good friends,
    So full of artless jealousy is guilt
    He wills you, in the name of God Almighty,
    leave, and presently after him.
  KING. The King's a beggar, now the play is done.
    The truest manner'd, such a holy witch
    A very valiant Briton and a good,
    you, is he married to Cleopatra?
    Till that the conquering wine hath steep'd our sense
     He rais'd the house with loud and coward cries.
  Then soul live thou upon thy servant's loss,
    Adam.

    Of this their purpose hither to this wood;
    A grumbling groom, and that the girl shall find.
  EMILIA. O, my good lord, yonder's foul murthers done!
      Through the transparent bosom of the deep,
    learned by the perfectest report they have more in them than
  HOST. I perceive you delight not in music.
    CONSTANCE, Mother to Arthur

  PRINCE JOHN. I trust, lords, we shall lie to-night together.
    The very mercy of the law cries out
    you are more saucy with lords and honourable personages than the
    What the vengeance, could he not speak 'em fair?
  PROTEUS. But she loves you?
  ROSALIND. Proceed.

Enter PROTEUS
  And given to time your own dear-purchased right,
  Hor. It would have much amaz'd you.
  CASSIO. Faith, I intend so.
    And kept asunder. You, madam, shall with us.
    I'll in to urge his hatred more to Clarence
    If she went before others I have seen as that diamond of yours
    I holp to frame thee. Do you know this lady?
    Speak not, reply not, do not answer me!
  SLENDER. I had rather than forty shillings I had my Book of

    As Priam is in Ilion.
    You had a motive for't.
    is to subdue men. Adieu, valour; rust, rapier; be still, drum;
          Which is most faint. Now 'tis true,
    And even thence thou wilt be stol'n I fear,
    If you will lead these graces to the grave,
  Claud. And, in faith, my lord, I spoke mine.
    I read it in the grammar long ago.
  Prince. What's the matter?
    lost. That you were made of is metal to make virgins. Virginity
    Immediately provided in that case.
    And when he please to make commotion,
    Olympus-high, and duck again as low
  MALVOLIO. 'Be not afraid of greatness.' 'Twas well writ.
    list; nor I list not to think what I can; nor indeed I cannot
    That stain'd their fetlocks in his smoking blood,
  And I am still with them, and they with thee.
    For, being ignorant to whom it goes,
  Her pretty looks have been mine enemies,

    Show'r'd on me daily, have been more than could
    Lord Cromwell of Wingfield, Lord Furnival of Sheffield,
    thyself as if thou hadst been in thine own slaughter-house;
         Re-enter BELARIUS with the body of CLOTEN
    nay-word, that you may know one another's mind, and the boy
                                         DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO.'
  BIONDELLO. Why, sir, he comes not.
    The present pow'r of life, but in short time
    Nor men nor money hath he to make war.
    The fiery orbs above and the twinn'd stones
  FLAVIUS. All broken implements of a ruin'd house.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    To come with him along.
  ANTONY. Hence, saucy eunuch; peace!
  AUMERLE. My lord, 'tis nothing.
    Come hither. Ah, you precious pander! Villain,
    Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets
     How in my strength you please. For you, Edmund,
                   Enter CONSTANCE
  BASSANIO. Do all men kill the things they do not love?
    Had it th' ability of life to thank you.
    Of our two cousins' coming into London.
    Fit to instruct her youth. If you, Hortensio,
  RODERIGO. O, villain that I am!
  OCTAVIUS, Triumvir after Caesar's death, later Augustus Caesar,
  SALISBURY. Must I rob the law?                  [Drawing his sword]
    But then renew I could not, like the moon;
    Say they know not, they cannot tell; look grimly,
    The fractions of her faith, orts of her love,
  DOCTOR. This disease is beyond my practice. Yet I have known those
    tonight at my house, where I will desire thee to laugh at my
    That hath dishonoured all our family;
    But think you, lords, that Clifford fled with them?
  PISTOL. Pish for thee, Iceland dog! thou prick-ear'd cur of
     To amplify too much, would make much more,
  Mon. Not Romeo, Prince; he was Mercutio's friend;
    Himself love's traitor. This is pity now,
  Prince. Yea, and elsewhere, so far as my coin would stretch; and
    Leander, he would have liv'd many a fair year, though Hero had
                                Exeunt CHIEF JUSTICE and SERVANT
    And gave the tongue a helpful ornament-

  NERISSA. It is your music, madam, of the house.
    That little thinks she has been sluic'd in's absence,
  SPEED. By a letter, I should say.
    wisdom, and awake your senses, that you may the better judge. If
SCENE V.
  ANTONY. Rarely, rarely!
    That Hubert, for the wealth of all the world,
    Admir'd Octavia. Great Mark Antony
  NERISSA. Ay, but the clerk that never means to do it,
    If they miscarry, we miscarry too.
                        Re-enter Lucius.
    And like a thief to come to rob my grounds,
  Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
     A plot upon her virtuous husband's life,
    What have I brought you to do?
    Against yourself. I know you are no truant.
    Yet, for your part, it not appears to me,
  DORSET. No man but prophesied revenge for it.
  ABHORSON. Look you, sir, here comes your ghostly father.
  BOTH. Wherefore? wherefore?
    You perpetual-sober gods! I do proclaim
    To be more fresh, reviving. She is fool'd
    Maccabaeus.
  King. Hence, therefore, every leader to his charge;
  SOOTHSAYER. I make not, but foresee.  
    trumpet call us to the breach; and we talk and, be Chrish, do
    meet me at town's end.
    No masque to-night; the wind is come about;

  DUKE. Still thus, and thus; still worse!
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    That Angelo is an adulterous thief,
    Who even but now did spurn me with his foot,
    For truth proves thievish for a prize so dear.
    Beats in this hollow prison of my flesh,
    work, which not to have been blest withal would have discredited
  For well thou know'st to my dear doting heart
  KING EDWARD. 'Twere pity they should lose their father's lands.  
    Those he commands move only in command,
  Osric, courtier.
    Betwixt thy begging and my meditation.
    The conquest of our scarce cold conqueror,
    Indeed, I would be consul.
  Rom. Is she a Capulet?
    And as for you yourself, our quondam queen,
  CORIOLANUS.  [Unmuffling]  If, Tullus,
     cue is villainous melancholy, with a sigh like Tom o' Bedlam.
    Or this imperious man will work us an
  BASTARD. A friend. What art thou?
    PETER. It shall be speeded well.                  Exit FRIAR
                              Followers.
    The devil their virtue tempts and they tempt heaven.
    Your knees to me, to your corrected son?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    And this is all I have done. She's a fair creature;
    And made a preachment of your high descent?
    In all her best array bear her to church;
Enter the KING, SALISBURY, and WARWICK, to the CARDINAL in bed
    'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
  Tyb. Mercutio, thou consortest with Romeo.
     To seal th' accuser's lips. Get thee glass eyes

  LEPIDUS. Farewell.                                      Exeunt
  LODOVICO. Two or three groan; it is a heavy night.
  FLUELLEN. Is it not lawful, an please your Majesty, to tell how
    'Now the King drinks to Hamlet.' Come, begin.
  CLOTEN. There is gold for you; sell me your good report.
    Than the rebuke you give it.
    I must not yet forsake you. Let's be merry:
    But altogether lacks the abilities
               To thee the reed is as the oak.
    But most it is presumption in us when
Enter SECOND MERCHANT and ANGELO
  SOMERSET. If he be dead, brave Talbot, then, adieu!
    That I have fin'd these bones of mine for ransom?
    For, look you, th' athversary- you may discuss unto the Duke,
  Pol. Marry, sir, here's my drift,
    fifth, if I.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. Is he found guilty?
    her.
    must also tell him our noble acceptance of them. Ingratitude is
    To comfort Edward with our company?
                      Enter ACHILLES
    That burn by day and night; and then I lov'd thee,
    roof fretted with golden fire- why, it appeareth no other thing
  CHARLES. A parley with the Duke of Burgundy!
    Your son shall have my daughter with consent.
    When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
     Would not scape censure, nor the redresses sleep,
    Put on a most importunate aspect,
    For being more stone than it? O royal piece,
  CAIUS. I cannot tell vat is dat; but it is tell-a me dat you
  SMITH. We took him setting of boys' copies.
    Can cunning sin cover itself withal!
  Let me excuse thee, ah my love well knows,
  HOST. How now, bully rook! Thou'rt a gentleman.  [To
    Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murther of
    Medea gathered the enchanted herbs

    Then why should they love Edward more than me?
  IAGO.                        He's married.
    But come what may, I do adore thee so
    The fool hath planted in his memory

  LUCENTIO. Sirrah, come hither; 'tis no time to jest,
  SATURNINUS.  [To TITUS]  Two of thy whelps, fell curs of bloody
    I prophesy the fearfull'st time to thee
    Seeming to bear it lightly. Take me up.

  LUCENTIO. But a harsh hearing when women are froward.
    name of Ned, I give thee this pennyworth of sugar, clapp'd even
    Environ you, till mischief and despair
    I vow by heaven these eyes shall never close.
    are; neither do I labour for a greater esteem than may in some
    And happily we might be interrupted.
    Sore hurt and bruis'd. The dreadful Sagittary
  SIMPCOX. O master, that you could!
    A book of prayers on their pillow lay;
    And so adieu, sweet Jude! Nay, why dost thou stay?
    In Pompey's Porch. For now, this fearful night,

    against May.                                    [Sound a retreat]
    pricksong-keeps time, distance, and proportion; rests me his
  COUNTESS. Come on, sir; I shall now put you to the height of your
    And ne'er be weary. Alcibiades,
Flourish of cornets. Enter the PRINCE of MOROCCO, a tawny Moor all in white,
    I'll give no wound to thee. Therefore, good heavens,


    The horsemen sit like fixed candlesticks
  SEYTON. All is confirm'd, my lord, which was reported.
    And suits well for a servant with my fortunes.
  Did this companion with the saffron face
  SHALLOW. Sir John, Sir John, do not yourself wrong. They are your

    A stranger to those most imperial looks
  WESTMORELAND. Farewell, faint-hearted and degenerate king,
    Be quiet, or- More light, more light!- For shame!
  LEONTES. Stars, stars,
    That noseless, handless, hack'd and chipp'd, come to
  LE BEAU. Monsieur the Challenger, the Princess calls for you.
    Wallets of flesh? or that there were such men
    given too much to allicholy and musing; but for you-well,

    them; but, vir sapit qui pauca loquitur. A soul feminine saluteth
  TITUS. Are they thy ministers? What are they call'd?
  But wherefore says she not she is unjust?  
    Thy hand is made to grasp a palmer's staff,
    brother, the bull, the primitive statue and oblique memorial of
    Two things provided more; that, for this favour,
    I have engag'd myself to a dear friend,
    Is wasteful and ridiculous excess.
  DEMETRIUS. Why mak'st thou it so strange?
    To grosser issues nor to larger reach
    Thrice give him over. Must I take th' cure upon me?
    leader.
  CASSANDRA. Virgins and boys, mid-age and wrinkled eld,
  FALSTAFF. An't please your lordship, I hear his Majesty is return'd
  Par. Younger than she are happy mothers made.
  AUFIDIUS. Read it not, noble lords;
    To climb his happiness, would be well express'd
  Host. Now, as I am a true woman, holland of eight shillings an ell.
    As we were sickly prey. Their shadows seem
    That thou art malcontent? I will provide thee.
    In yours and my discharge.
  BASSANIO. None but that ugly treason of mistrust
  ROSALIND. Dear Celia, I show more mirth than I am mistress of; and
    And no man see me more.
  BEDFORD. Lord Talbot, do not so dishonour me;
    About some gossips for your Highness.
  ESCALUS. Say you?
    not.
    thus, my lord: my dear lord and most esteemed friend, your
    And mark the musical confusion

  Hot. That roan shall be my throne.
  ANTONIO. Draw together;
    man, niece. Hem! Brave Troilus, the prince of chivalry!
Enter RICHARD, DUKE OF GLOUCESTER, solus
    Lovers and madmen have such seething brains,
  KING. Upon thy certainty and confidence
  FIRST MURDERER. And like a traitor to the name of God
    Instead whereof sharp stakes pluck'd out of hedges
  And moan th' expense of many a vanished sight.
  VIOLA. By my troth, I'll tell thee, I am almost sick for one;
    that Caesar were dead to live all freemen? As Caesar loved me, I
    my mother that, upon the least occasion more, mine eyes will tell
    Perchance because she knows them innocent.
    My legs are longer though, to run away.                 Exit
    And here is come to do some villanous shame
    To an infected jelly, and my name
    indifferent red; item, two grey eyes with lids to them; item, one
    Which, as I take it, is a kind of puppy
                                 [She giveth SATURNINE a letter]  
  AUSTRIA. Peace!
  MENENIUS. I am as thy general is.

    neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.
    A wife of me, though there my hope be done.
    Strength'ned by interchangement of your rings;

  DUKE SENIOR. And did you leave him in this contemplation?
    As he hath spices of them all- not all,

    That all the court may echo with the noise.
    When he comes back; you demi-puppets that
    such delicate burdens of dildos and fadings, 'jump her and thump
    Drugs poison him that so feil sick of you.
                 Enter Sir Richard Vernon.
    And the loud trumpet blowing them together-
  MENENIUS. Do not stand upon't.

    If it be so- as so 'tis put on me,

  THERSITES. God-a-mercy, that thou wilt believe me; but a plague
  And, veiled in them, did win whom he would maim.
    I will make haste; but, till I come again,
  TRANIO. Gremio, 'tis known my father hath no less
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    O most pernicious woman!
    The Prince of Cumberland; which honor must
  RATCLIFF. Thomas the Earl of Surrey and himself,
  ENOBARBUS. Sir,
    And like a hermit overpass'd thy days.
    Lord's sake.'
  YORK. Sons, peace!
    Ev'n to the Hall, to hear what shall become
  Bene. They swore that you were almost sick for me.
    Of our dear souls. Meantime, sweet sister,
  LAFEU. Who? God?
    Be given to your remembrance; the description
  CLOWN. Ay; or else 'twere hard luck, being in so preposterous
    And when the morning sun shall raise his car
  ANGELO. Condemn the fault and not the actor of it!
                     152
    Rosalind, if you will.
    Ordained is to raise this tedious siege
    That day that made my sister thirteen years.
    mistress.
    Of English Henry, shall this night appear
  BASTARD. And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
    In a most curious mantle, wrought by th' hand
    We cannot get from him.  
      And winking Mary-buds begin
    The virtue of your eye must break my oath.
    purse; borrowing only lingers and lingers it out, but the disease
    Thy greatest help is quiet, gentle Nell.
    I knew she would.
    Welcome to Rome, renowned Coriolanus!             [Flourish]
    Where there was no proportion held in love.
  IAGO. Are your doors lock'd?
    'Fair sir, you spit on me on Wednesday last,

  OCTAVIA. Good my lord,
  QUICKLY. I beseech you, be not so phlegmatic; hear the
    Here comes Beatrice. By this day, she's a fair lady! I do spy
  FIRST SENATOR. Thou hast painfully discover'd; are his files
  SICINIUS. This is most likely!
    That took the Phoenix and her fraught from Candy;
    As now it coldly stands- when first I woo'd her!
    she. 'Be opposite with kinsman, surly with servants; let thy
SECOND MERCHANT. My business cannot brook this dalliance.
  ARCHBISHOP. No, no, my lord. Note this: the King is weary
  LADY. Madam, I'll sing.
                                     Exeunt ANTONIO and PANTHINO
    The King hath strictly charg'd the contrary.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    for saying that the Duke of York was rightful heir to the crown.
  ANTONIO. Fie, what a spendthrift is he of his tongue!
  TALBOT. Where is my strength, my valour, and my force?
  CHAMBERLAIN. My lords, you speak your pleasures.
  FRENCH SOLDIER. Monsieur le Fer.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  ALCIBIADES. Ay, Timon, and have cause.  
    To frustrate both his oath and what beside
    I thank ye heartily. So shall this lady,
    Than your particular demands will touch it.
    For then, and not till then, he felt himself,
    Or I with grief and extreme age shall perish
  DUKE OF VENICE. What, is Antonio here?
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

    As well might poison poison! Be reveng'd;
  PROVOST. What ho, Abhorson! Where's Abhorson there?
  dost thou mad me?
    So Tamora.
    Even to roaring.
  Reg. My sickness grows upon me.
    By that false woman as this king by thee.
    seek some better service; their villainy goes against my weak
    Should be maintain'd, assembled, and collected,
    If I achieve not this young modest girl.
  IACHIMO. This matter of marrying his king's daughter, wherein he

    children?
    Send me your prisoners with the speediest means,
                          Enter JULIET
  SECOND CITIZEN. Poor soul, his eyes are red as fire with weeping.
  YORK. Give me my boots, I say.
    Iceland!
    That must strike sail to spirits of vile sort!
    Who thunders to his captives blood and death,
  BUCKINGHAM. York, if thou meanest well I greet thee well.  
    More upon humour than advis'd respect.
    What torment I did find thee in; thy groans
  YORK. Thus war hath given thee peace, for thou art still.
    They often feel a world of restless cares,
    And give us truth who 'tis that is arrived.
    And, princes French, and peers, health to you all!
    Unless they seek for hatred at my hands;
    Of what I saw there.

    So merry and so gamesome. He is call'd
    answer me with your sword.
    Fetter strong madness in a silken thread,

    Her hair, what colour?
    His sword did ne'er leave striking in the field.
           Every wise man's son doth know.
  SECOND OUTLAW. Come, bring her away.
                          Enter GRATIANO
    And then I told you true. And yet, dear lady,
                Enter SIR TOBY and CLOWN
    For here we entertain a solemn peace.                 Exeunt
  Beat. The fault will be in the music, cousin, if you be not wooed
                                    Gloucester, and Attendants].
  Lear. I did her wrong.
  CYMBELINE. Come, stand thou by our side;

    I trust ere long to choke thee with thine own,
  GLOUCESTER. Then send for one presently.
  TROILUS. O beauty! where is thy faith?
    More than quick words do move a woman's mind.
SCENE IV.
    To give in evidence. What then? What rests?
  CAIUS. Be gar, nor I too; there is no bodies.
    It might have since been answer'd in repaying
  CAESAR. You praise yourself
  Hot. I think there's no man speaks better Welsh. I'll to dinner.
  MIRANDA. The strangeness of your story put
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Sure ones, then.
         Which bewept to the grave did not go
    effected.
    Within this bosom never ent'red yet
    will be blown up by th' root?                                Exit
    The reasons are more potent and heroical.
            With Mars fall out, with Juno chide,
    Although I hate her, I'll not harm her so.
  STANLEY. Madam, your penance done, throw off this sheet,
  Neither disturbed with the effect of wine,
  MISTRESS ANNE PAGE, her daughter
  Friar. Holy Saint Francis! What a change is here!
                            SCENE 4.
    plue and sometimes red; but his nose is executed and his fire's
    Better opinion, better confirmation;
  SOMERSET. My liege, it is young Henry, Earl of Richmond.
    Howling and shrieking. When these prodigies
  HASTINGS. False-boding woman, end thy frantic curse,
    was converted) might they not stop a beer barrel?
  TIMON. You tell me true.
    Misthink the King, and not be satisfied!
    I pray you, after the lieutenant; go.              Exit Roderigo.
    If I have us'd myself unmannerly;
  FRANCISCA. It is a man's voice. Gentle Isabella,
            And then I'll study how to die.'
    Even to the uttermost, as I please, in words.
  CHARLES. 'Tis known already that I am possess'd
                     48
  LEONTES. The fixture of her eye has motion in't,
    And now I must be as unjust to Thurio.
    Bring him our purposes; and so farewell.
  LUCILIUS. [Within.] You shall not come to them.
                          with others
    To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
Enter DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.
  LORD SANDYS                   SIR HENRY GUILDFORD
    On which heaven rides, knit all the Greekish ears
    By having him making yourself no less.
             Following darkness like a dream,
    He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
                    Enter Laertes with others.
    shall hear how things go, and, I warrant, to your content.
    Is this a dagger which I see before me,
    I dare be sworn for him he would not leave it  
Enter SALERIO and SOLANIO
  EMILIA. Ay, ay! O, lay me by my mistress' side.          Exit Iago.
    To see her noble lord restor'd to health,
    The powers of us may serve so great a day.
Britain. CYMBELINE'S tent
  CYMBELINE. Again! and bring me word how 'tis with her.

    If they perceive dissension in our looks

    Pernicious Protector, dangerous peer,
    sham'd, y'are overthrown, y'are undone for ever.
  SIR JOHN COLVILLE
     Was then scarce friends with him. I have heard more since.

  PROTEUS. Over the boots! Nay, give me not the boots.
    give him me. Be true to my lord; if he flinch, chide me for it.
    Base inclination, and the start of spleen,
  Poor soul the centre of my sinful earth,  

  Shook off my sober guards and civil fears;
    A bare-ribb'd death, whose office is this day
    And fit for great employment, worthy lord.
    taunt of one that makes fritters of English? This is enough
    My sons would never so dishonour me.
    are arrested for it, Master Brook.
    Which thou forget'st. This damn'd witch Sycorax,
    Than e'er the coward hand of France can win.
  Old Man. Fellow, where goest?  
    And you have slander'd nature in my form,
  BOY. He gives you, upon his knees, a thousand thanks; and he
    Do that good mischief which may make this island
    'Tis true- nay, keep the ring, 'tis true. I am sure
    Because we now are full. It was thought meet
    The worthy Leonatus is in safety,

A field near Frogmore
    For his undone lord than mine eyes for you.
    And liv'd with looking on his images;  
            To th' shining synod of the rest
  MAECENAS. Welcome from Egypt, sir.  
  CRESSIDA. Why tell you me of moderation?
    I should rejoice now at this happy news;
    Than that which withering on the virgin thorn
  KATHERINA. Then, God be bless'd, it is the blessed sun;
    Now, where's my wife?
    Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
    For he is gracious if he be observ'd.
           My soul is in the sky.
    The country base than to commit such slaughter;
    And do not break into these deep extremes.
    quality. I beseech you all be better known to this gentleman,
                 DEMETRIUS throws the body
    As well appeareth by the cause you come;
    Unheard- what then?
    But, I beseech you, what's become of Katharine,
    If he for gold will give us any food;
  JAQUENETTA. That's hereby.
    Finely put off!
    The even mead, that erst brought sweetly forth
    Before the wound do grow uncurable;
    But by-and-by comes back to Romeo,
    to a death's-head with a bone in his mouth than to either of
           See as thou was wont to see.  
  BASTARD. The French, my lord; men's mouths are full of it;
  KING. Then in our measure do but vouchsafe one change.
    Give me his gage-lions make leopards tame.
    For all the soil of the achievement goes
    As if a double hunt were heard at once,
  Then the conceit of this inconstant stay,
           Approach, ye Furies fell.
    I know my lord hath spent of Timon's wealth,

    Let us assail the family of York.
  KING. Not for the world, fair madam, by my will.
    Of the right reverend Cardinal of York.
    Of that I doubt, as all men's children may.
  Our helpful ship was splitted in the midst;

  FIRST LORD. 'Tis our hope, sir,
  MOWBRAY. The just proportion that we gave them out.
  CHARMIAN. Excellent.
    And his resemblance, being not like the Duke.
  To scorch your face, and to disfigure you.
    O heaven, the vanity of wretched fools!
    Thou shalt be worshipp'd, kiss'd, lov'd, and ador'd!

  Nurse. Well, sir, my mistress is the sweetest lady. Lord, Lord!
  ISABELLA. Please you to do't,
  LOVELL. To th' water side I must conduct your Grace;
    Her injury the beadle to her sin;
    Upon your stubborn usage of the Pope;
                        Servants with torches.
    'Tis probable, and palpable to thinking.
ACT I. SCENE I.
  A Priest.
    Which hoxes honesty behind, restraining
    We trifle time; I pray thee pursue sentence.
    How cursed Athens, mindless of thy worth,
  PANDARUS. Where are my tears? Rain, to lay this wind, or my heart  
  KING RICHARD. Down, down I come, like glist'ring Phaethon,
    Yet cannot hold this visible shape, my knave.  
    Romeo, that spoke him fair, bid him bethink
    And the complexion of the element  
  SICINIUS. 'Tis right.
    My hunger's gone; but even before, I was
    then they light on us.
  ANNE. No, why? When he that is my husband now
  PAROLLES. So please your Majesty, my master hath been an honourable
  VALENTINE. I take your offer, and will live with you,
     That you'll vouchsafe me raiment, bed, and food.'
    Yet by reputing of his high descent-
    Your very worshipful and loving friends,
    And leave those woes alone which I alone
    And flourish'd after, I'd not do't; but since
    degree of a squire.
  ARMADO. Come hither, come hither. How did this argument begin?
    And one against Glendower; perforce a third
  SOLANIO. Ha! What sayest thou? Why, the end is, he hath lost a
  TIMON. Well; what further?
    'Deliver Helen, and all damage else-
    And he wants wit that wants resolved will
  As those two mourning eyes become thy face:
    Have broke their backs with laying manors on 'em
  BARNARDINE. [Within] A pox o' your throats! Who makes that noise
    What dreadful noise of waters in my ears,
    His brandish'd sword did blind men with his beams;  

    As flowers with frost, or grass beat down with storms.
    of dishonour; in few, bestow'd her on her own lamentation, which
    Amongst the loving Welshmen canst procure,
  JOHN. And Dick the butcher-
  Bene. First, of my word! Therefore play, music. Prince, thou art
    I should to Plashy too,
    Whither indeed, before thy here-approach,
  Queen. Alack, what noise is this?
1612
    Receive it from me, then: war and confusion
    Beat loud the tambourines, let the trumpets blow,
    We are to cure such sorrows, not to sow 'em.
    And so I chide the means that keeps me from it;

    Must by the hungry now be fed upon.
                                 Exeunt DUKE, train, and LE BEAU
  ANTONIO.Th' offence is not of such a bloody nature;
  Whom whilst I laboured of a love to see,
  THIRD CITIZEN. You shall have leave.
  WILLIAM. Faith, sir, so so.
  Leon. Niece, will you look to those things I told you of?
                   [All sleep but ALONSO, SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO]
  CAIUS. Rugby, come to the court with me. By gar, if I have  
     whom the foul fiend vexes. There could I have him now- and there-
    The rites for which I love him are bereft me,
    There shalt thou know thy charge. and there receive
    For it must seem their guilt.         Exit. Knocking within.
    stuff a botcher's cushion or to be entomb'd in an ass's
  TITUS. She loves thee, boy, too well to do thee harm.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Sorrow and grief of heart
  DESDEMONA. 'Tis meet I should be used so, very meet.
     Hath pluck'd him after.  

  Edg. Here, father, take the shadow of this tree
    all nick.
    That the great body of our state may go
  KING RICHARD. What said our cousin when you parted with him?
    The next ensuing hour some foul mischance
  CHARLES. Divinest creature, Astraea's daughter,
    Tell the Empress from me I am of age

    That long have frown'd upon their emnity!
                           They march about the stage. [Exeunt.]
    More than I have said, loving countrymen,
    While she was in her dull and sleeping hour,
    visitation.  

                                    Exit TALBOT. Alarum; retreat
    Thereof most worthy, were I the fairest youth
    time to do't. Hell is murky. Fie, my lord, fie! A soldier, and
    For he that steeps his safety in true blood
    -and you have been a man long known to me, though I
  ROSALIND. Ay, but the feet were lame, and could not bear themselves
    To sound the purposes of all their hearts,
  BRUTUS. Did you perceive
    To see great Hercules whipping a gig,
  TITUS. O monstrous! What reproachful words are these?
    grace of wit will shortly turn into silence, and discourse grow
    Which is the mightier. In his lawless fit
    His issue disinherited should be;
    As I have heard him swear himself there's one
    You have a noble and a true conceit
  HOST. What say'st thou, my bully rook?         [They go aside]
    was called Philip of Macedon, as I take it.
  PANDARUS. Marry, at the white hair that Helen spied on Troilus'
Enter the EMPEROR, and the EMPRESS and her two sons, DEMETRIUS and CHIRON;
    he was but tender-bodied, and the only son of my womb; when youth
    I fear me, love, if that I had been dead,
  Oph. Do you doubt that?
    I fast and pray'd for their intelligence- thus:
  BELARIUS. Those runagates?
  WILLIAM. O-vocativo, O.
A hall in the castle.
    To serve and to deserve my mistress' grace;  
  GOBBO. Be God's sonties, 'twill be a hard way to hit! Can you tell
    Of space had pointed him sharp as my needle;

    The singing masons building roofs of gold,

    After a voyage, he hath strange places cramm'd
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    The cockle of rebellion, insolence, sedition,
    my heart to beat him-
  CASSIUS. Antony,
     away! Go to! Have you wisdom? So.
    Add proof unto mine armour with thy prayers,

    If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
    Let your remembrance apply to Banquo;
    And hither hale that misbelieving Moor

  OTHELLO.                   Hold your hands,
    Let us be lead within thy bosom, Richard,
    To lengthen out the worst that must be spoken:
    Now thou art seal'd the son of chivalry?
    If any be, the trespass of the Queen.
        With heigh! the sweet birds, O, how they sing!
    There where your argosies, with portly sail-
  Fal. Hostess, I forgive thee. Go make ready breakfast. Love thy
    Which hath been smooth as oil, soft as young down,
       Timon's servants
  BASTARD. O inglorious league!
  PRINCE.  [Reads]  'I commend me to thee, I commend thee, and I
  Mer. A challenge, on my life.
  BRUTUS. We pray the gods he may deserve your loves.
  And stops her pipe in growth of riper days:
    'Tis at the tuft of olives here hard by.

    Upon my part shall be inviolable.
    What simpleness is this.- I come, I come!             Knock.

    That guards the peace and safety of your person;  
    Puts my apparel and my count'nance on,
    Here in the thigh. Can I bear that with patience  
     My father watches. O sir, fly this place!
    of this man that takes me for the general? He's grown a very land
    Which, as I think, you know not. Here is a letter
    To the Prince and his book-mates.
    They're close dilations, working from the heart,
    Frozen almost to death, how he did lap me
    above water, and sung this ballad against the hard hearts of
  TOUCHSTONE. God 'ild you, sir; I desire you of the like. I press in
    Upon our fields.
    Your kingdom's terror and black Nemesis?
    Hooking both right and wrong to th' appetite,

    Sheathing the steel in my advent'rous body.
  CLOTEN. Sayest thou?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>

  CURIO. Feste, the jester, my lord; a fool that the Lady Olivia's
  The thing we have not, mast'ring what not strives,
    will run.
    Lord Saturninus Rome's great Emperor;
SCENE 2.
    To see you so attir'd; swoon, I think,
    you could possibly have found in any part of Illyria. Will you
    Confess yourselves wondrous malicious,
  SPEED. Is she not hard-favour'd, sir?
  For these deep shames and great indignities.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    I do not talk much.
  LEONTES. Thou dost advise me
    I'll give but notice you are dead, and send him
  SILENCE. Good morrow, good cousin Shallow.
    For in the fatness of these pursy times
    With his most noble blood.
  ARMADO. My love is most immaculate white and red.  
    That you did fear is done.
     That he, so slightly valued in his messenger,


  CRANMER. She shall be, to the happiness of England,  
    So well as by reflection, I your glass  

    vengeance on the whole camp! or, rather, the Neapolitan
    Beginning in the middle; starting thence away,
    Am not I Hermia? Are not you Lysander?

    Good sometimes queen, prepare thee hence for France.
                            Enter ANTONY
    'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
  SICINIUS. To th' Capitol, come.
    May be the lady. Thou shalt know the man
    To try with it- as with an enemy
  There did this perjur'd goldsmith swear me down
  Dog. Why, you speak like an ancient and most quiet watchman, for I
  Be where you list, your charter is so strong,
    Sons of Henry IV
    We were not all unkind, nor all deserve
    Against the Pope, and count his friends my foes.
    Now come, my Ariel, bring a corollary,
  CONSPIRATORS, With Aufidius
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    I hold my most malicious foe and think not
    of note- do you note me?- that most are affected to these.
    It is most meet we arm us 'gainst the foe;  
    bottle-ale houses.
  OTHELLO. He did, from first to last. Why dost thou ask?
  EVANS. Pless my soul, how full of chollors I am, and trempling
  ANTONY. The beds i' th' East are soft; and thanks to you,
  CASSIO. Masters, play here, I will content your pains; Something
    And I do think- or else this brain of mine
    When all her chivalry hath been in France,
    Too early seen unknown, and known too late!
    Ta'en of your many virtues, the King's Majesty  
  BANQUO. Too cruel anywhere.
    To death, or to a vow of single life.
  AARON. Why, she was wash'd, and cut, and trimm'd, and 'twas

    Set on toward Swinstead; to my litter straight;
    What else may hap to time I will commit;
  Lear. This is a slave, whose easy-borrowed pride
    Speak 'pardon' as 'tis current in our land;


    That they will guard you, whe'er you will or no,
  Escalus, Prince of Verona.
    That most ingrateful boy there by your side  
  BASTARD. Indeed, your drums, being beaten, will cry out;
    As I am truly given to understand,
  PETRUCHIO. Come, come, you wasp; i' faith, you are too angry.  
  SALISBURY. I have.
  Gent. Faith, once or twice she heav'd the name of father
    You should have won them dearer than you have.
    Runs on the dexter cheek, and this sinister
    That we shall stop her exclamation.
  TALBOT. Foul fiend of France and hag of all despite,
    But thou, most fine, most honour'd, most renown'd,
    The truth is then most done not doing it;
    To be commanded.
  CRANMER.  [Kneeling]  It is my duty
    Where thou thyself dost air-the Queen o' th' sky,
    Marriage is a matter of more worth
    A sceptre snatch'd with an unruly hand
    Or raise myself, but keep my wonted calling?
    To it, boy. Marcus, loose when I bid.

DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    By paved fountain, or by rushy brook,
  SICINIUS. Stop,
    Nor do I thee. Though I did wish him dead,
    So she may live unscarr'd of bleeding slaughter,
  SCOUT. Success unto our valiant general,
  DERBY. A boon, my sovereign, for my service done!
  FABIAN. She did show favour to the youth in your sight only to
    Nothing so strong and fortunate as I.
    And drive away the vulgar from the streets;
    None about Caesar
  CYMBELINE. Nursing of my sons?

    Unto their lords, by them accomplished;
  DAUPHIN. Would I were able to load him with his desert! Will it
    When thou wert Regent for our sovereign,
  
  CLEOPATRA. My desolation does begin to make
  KING HENRY. It is not a fashion for the maids in France to kiss
    By Him that made us all, I am resolv'd

    And but for our approach those sleeping stones
    And the demesnes that there adjacent lie,

  Par. Happily met, my lady and my wife!
  THURIO. What says she to my valour?
    Which he enforc'd from me, away he posts
    Lie at the proud foot of a conqueror,
  LONGAVILLE. Ay me, I am forsworn!
Sicilia. A prison
    Of your soft cheveril conscience would receive
          To one thing constant never.
    Not to consider in what case thou stand'st
    But old folks, many feign as they were dead-
    And nothing of a man.
    And to be baited with the rabble's curse.  
    Her nurse is privy; and if aught in this
    The rate of usance here with us in Venice.
    marvellous foul linen.
    with a magician, most profound in his art and yet not damnable.
  Leon. O, my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body,
    Withal, as large a charter as the wind,
  SECOND LORD. I have told your lordship already the stocks carry  
    Until my husband bid me.  
    Of such contents as you will wonder at;
  PAROLLES. So I say-both of Galen and Paracelsus.
  STEPHANO.  [Passing the bottle]  Here, kiss the book. Though
    in the authority of her merit did justly put on the vouch of very  
    Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
    Thy God's, and truth's; then, if thou fall'st, O Cromwell,
    To County Paris. Then comes she to me
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
  THIRD MURTHERER. 'Tis he.
  NYM. The good humour is to steal at a minute's rest.
                        Enter the Boy
    Will not, nor cannot, use such vigilance
    To be her mistress' mistress! The Queen's queen!

  BELARIUS. [Whispering] Hark, boys.
    With eight tall ships, three thousand men of war,
    As 'twere from forth us all, a man distill'd
                 Enter SIR HUGH EVANS
  GLOUCESTER. Yes, if it please your Majesty, my liege.
    He is with Caesar.
  KING HENRY. Gentle son Edward, thou wilt stay with me?
  LONGAVILLE. A calf, fair lady!
    Nor great Alcides, nor the god of war,
    All clinquant, all in gold, like heathen gods,
  Lear. A bitter fool!
    Call thee to answer.
    God pless you, Aunchient Pistol! you scurvy, lousy knave, God  
     squints the eye, and makes the harelip; mildews the white wheat,
  AJAX. Thou bitch-wolf's son, canst thou not hear? Feel, then.
    Does pity, as constrained blemishes,
  WARWICK. What counsel, lords? Edward from Belgia,
          Whose note full many a man doth mark,
    But she's best married that dies married young.
    I promise you my soul is very jocund
    Rest you, whiles I lament King Henry's corse.
    Sent down among 'em which hath flaw'd the heart
    And make me as the poorest vassal is,
    Ne'er through an arch so hurried the blown tide
  But best is best, if never intermixed'?
                A thing of pity.
    Vouchsaf'd to think he had partners. You shall find there
  HYMEN.    Peace, ho! I bar confusion;
    I know you could not lack, I am certain on't,
    Yet seek no shelter to avoid the storm;  
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    As ever oak or stone was sound.
    What you have been ere this, and what you are;
    Wrapp'd in a paper, which contain'd the name
  BUSHY. The wind sits fair for news to go to Ireland.
    Timon has been this lord's father,
      be otherwise.
         Be merry, be merry.  
    Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
  IRAS. Royal Queen!
    Food to the suck'd and hungry lioness?

    Women to change their shapes than men their minds.  
    no more spoil upon my face; thou hast me, if thou hast me, at the  
  Ros. As the indifferent children of the earth.
    when th' other's come to't. Hector shall not have his wit this
    how to know a man in love; in which cage of rushes I am sure you
    Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
  Wor. Good cousin, be advis'd; stir not to-night.
    removedness; from whom I have this intelligence, that he is
  MENENIUS. Nay, I hear nothing; his mother and his wife
    All of one nature, of one substance bred,
  KEEPER. Had you such leisure in the time of death
    appelez-vous le pied et la robe?
  Ham. Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
    Whereat the great Lord of Northumberland,
  POLIXENES. Knows he of this?
  MARCIUS. I do beseech you,
    cool the while. I love Benedick well, and I could wish he would
  QUINCE. Robin Starveling, the tailor.
  FALSTAFF. Mine host of the Garter!

  CASSIUS. Ha, ha! How vilely doth this cynic rhyme!
    Prithee let's walk. Now, by my holidame,
  PETRUCHIO. When you are gentle, you shall have one too,
    It is not friendly, 'tis not maidenly;
  Ham. I am constant to my purposes; they follow the King's pleasure.

    withal; sithence, in the loss that may happen, it concerns you
    Point against point rebellious, arm 'gainst arm,

    An I had but a belly of any indifferency, I were simply the most
    Evils enow to darken all his goodness.
    Or would have done't myself. Your emperor
  BUCKINGHAM. Is all things ready for the royal time?
    Where, being but young, I framed to the harp
    Is 'husband' in my mouth! even for that name,
    Think I am dead, and that even here thou takest,
    your master is hard at door; if he bid you set it down, obey
    With fiery eyes sparkling for very wrath,

    Abates the ardour of my liver.
  Kent. Here, sir; but trouble him not; his wits are gone.
    They would but stink, and putrefy the air.
    For many good and great deserts to Rome.
  Mrs. PAGE. You will do it?
  Urs. Sure I think so;
    As it disanimates his enemies.
    thy heart in a scarf!

PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Ingratitude, more strong than traitors' arms,
    Did York's dread curse prevail so much with heaven
    And lowly words were ransom for their fault.
    be damn'd for killing him, from the which no warrant can

    Writings, all tending to the great opinion
  APEMANTUS. Would I had a rod in my mouth, that I might answer thee  
  WILLIAMS. Here's my glove; give me another of thine.
    We must be neat- not neat, but cleanly, Captain.

    That sweet aspect of princes, and their ruin
    confessions- handkerchief! To confess and be hanged for his labor-

    Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love;
  GREY. And I, my royal sovereign.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  CHARLES. Who ever saw the like? What men have I!

    This Ipswich fellow's insolence; or proclaim
  KING. Still exaction!
    now, dog! 'Loo, Paris, 'loo! now my double-horn'd Spartan! 'loo,
    O cunning love, with tears thou keep'st me blind,

    That I shall blush in acting, and might well
    An appetite that I am sick withal,
    Which I so often owe; but your ring first,
    To one above itself. Each following day
  VERNON, of the White Rose or York faction

    His noble nephew here in virtue's nest,
    Percy; I have made him sure.
  Greg. They must take it in sense that feel it.
  CRESSIDA. Speak not so loud.
    And would, as I shall pity, I could help!
  ARMADO. By the North Pole, I do challenge thee.
  PORTIA. Is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble?
by William Shakespeare
    And furbish new the name of John o' Gaunt,
  MOTH. All hail, the richest heauties on the earth!
  CHARMIAN. I had rather heat my liver with drinking.
  BASSANIO. Good cheer, Antonio! What, man, courage yet!  

    that there shall not be one spot of love in 't.
    For we will hear, note, and believe in heart,  
  VALENTINE. By seven o'clock I'll get you such a ladder.
  DUKE. Ay, that's the theme.
    I would applaud thee to the very echo,
    Disorder, horror, fear, and mutiny,
  PANDARUS. Faith, I'll not meddle in it. Let her be as she is: if
    Was Tybalt's doomsday, whose untimely death
    Of sea and land, which can distinguish 'twixt
    How shall this bosom multiplied digest

                                                         Exeunt.
    Lord John of Lancaster, go you unto him.
    And I will die a hundred thousand deaths
  Host. Who, I? No; I defy thee! God's light, I was never call'd so
  FALSTAFF. The Windsor bell hath struck twelve; the minute
  CASCA. Why, for that too.
  VALENTINE. In conclusion, I stand affected to her.
                      Enter FALSTAFF
    He be as miserably slain as I.
  PROVOST. [Aside] Heaven give thee moving graces.
    And not by old gradation, where each second  
    The Goths have gathered head; and with a power
    And ever and anon they made a doubt
    Upon which better part our pray'rs come in,
    For Humphrey being dead, as he shall be,
                          Re-enter QUEEN

  That she might think me some untutored youth,
  DUCHESS. Tut, this was nothing but an argument
                          Enter Tybalt.
     These hairs which thou dost ravish from my chin

  KING HENRY. Ah, Exeter!
  But, like a shrew, you first begin to brawl.
  GONZALO. What's the matter?  
    Against the Duke of Hereford that appeals me;
    He is in haste; therefore, I pray you, go.  
    You'll win two days upon me.

  TITANIA. Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful.
    But if the while I think on thee (dear friend)
    O, go not yet! Even thus two friends condemn'd
    Of all opinion that grows rank in them

    Since maids, in modesty, say 'No' to that
    For it requires the royal debt it lent you.
    that I might see.
    When now I think you can behold such sights
    As by his smoothed brows it doth appear;
  SICINIUS. Let's hence and hear
    The French have reinforc'd their scatter'd men.

    And call them pillars that will stand to us;
    More fearful, is deliver'd.
    she plots, then she ruminates, then she devises; and what
    you, lady?
    sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration? Impart.
Corioli. The Senate House.
    night's exploit on Gadshill. You may thank th' unquiet time for
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS

    for I have no more doublets than backs, no more stockings than
    Which I'll lay down.
    Why then my taxing like a wild-goose flies,

  VOLSCE. A most royal one: the centurions and their charges,  

    For thy mistaking so, we pardon thee.
                              Music and a song, "Black spirits."
    Great cause to give great thanks.
  LUCETTA, waiting-woman to Julia
    Rather than have false Proteus rescue me.

  When thou shalt be disposed to set me light,
    'Gainst us, our state, our subjects, or our land.
    Still cupboarding the viand, never bearing
    My father of this business.
    Hath in her more destruction than thy sword
    Mocking the air with colours idly spread,
                   Enter VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, and MENENIUS
  Ros. Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,

    For showing me again the eyes of man!
     this? Consider him well. Thou ow'st the worm no silk, the beast
    I'll write unto them, and entreat them fair;
  Even now we hous'd him in the abbey here,

  THIRD APPARITION. Be lion-mettled, proud, and take no care  
THE FIRST PART OF HENRY THE SIXTH
    What, out of hearing gone? No sound, no word?
    The triple pillar of the world transform'd  

  ENOBARBUS. A very fine one. O, how he loves Caesar!
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. God's wrong is most of all.
    Say, "Thus did Banquo."
    And send for money for 'em.  
  Blows fair from land; they stay for nought at an
    have his effect of gravity.
    O'erhang and jutty his confounded base,
    My Lord of Surrey, why look you so sad?
    Lend me your hand.                Exeunt with Caesar's body.
    A shrewd contriver; and you know his means,
  ANTONY. Therefore I took your hands, but was indeed

    will- 'tis strongly wedg'd up in a block-head; but if it were at
    Recoil from your great stock.
    Rhenish on my head once. This same skull, sir, was Yorick's
    Talk'st thou to me of ifs? Thou art a traitor.
    Is not thy coming for my other hand?
  CAMILLO. Nay, but my letters, by this means being there
    So thin that life looks through, and will break out.
    No kin, no love, no blood, no soul so near me
    Of palsied eld; and when thou art old and rich,
OLIVIA'S garden
  NESTOR. What a vice were it in Ajax now-
  DUKE.                  To vouch this is no proof,
  CASSIUS. That done, repair to Pompey's Theatre.
    cate-log  [Pulling out a paper]  of her condition. 'Inprimis: She
  POSTHUMUS. All is well yet.
    be no great love in the beginning, yet heaven may decrease  
    And let ourselves again but understand
  WARWICK. Where is the post that came from valiant Oxford?

  SANDYS. No, my lord,
    When Caesar's wife shall meet with better dreams."

     The grief hath craz'd my wits. What a night 's this!
  HORTENSIO.  [Aside]  I see she's like to have neither cap nor gown.
    He doth fill fields with harness in the realm,
  STEPHANO. I will fetch off my bottle, though I be o'er
    Yet, ere we put ourselves in arms, dispatch we

    Like far-off mountains turned into clouds.
    more. Had you rather Caesar were living and die all slaves, than
    In our dear peril.  
    With thy most operant poison. What is here?
    If you are hir'd for meed, go back again,
    With bats and clubs? The matter? Speak, I pray you.
    Nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold.
  PROTEUS. No; that it is too little.
    Wanting the manage of unruly jades.
    Come hither, boy; ask me this slave in French
     With his prepared sword he charges home
  Mar. 'Tis gone and will not answer.
    What power is it which mounts my love so high,
  Bal. [aside] For all this same, I'll hide me hereabout.
    courtier, would hazard the winning both of first and last.
    A woman, naturally born to fears;
    it that says I love not you.
    That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,


  MESSENGER. Above an hour, my lord.
    then that friend demand why Brutus rose against Caesar, this is

  CORIOLANUS. Which is his house, beseech you?
  SHALLOW. That you must. Will you, upon good dowry,
    not revenge? If we are like you in the rest, we will resemble you
  LAFEU. He cannot want the best
    Blush'd at herself; and she- in spite of nature,
  KING. But little, Charles;
  ESCALUS, an ancient Lord
    And take in Toryne?- You have heard on't, sweet?
  MARIA. A mark marvellous well shot; for they both did hit it.
    Is rounded with a sleep. Sir, I am vex'd;
    I' th' plain way of his merit.

  LAFEU. Your commendations, madam, get from her tears.
    have come before.
    Upon this fairest prisoner.     [Puts a bracelet on her arm]
    That stay his cure. Their malady convinces
               Lay them in gore,
  MARCUS. Now farewell, flatt'ry; die, Andronicus.
  CADE. We John Cade, so term'd of our supposed father-
  Mort. O, I am ignorance itself in this!
    That knows the tinct and multiplying med'cine,
    And therefore shall it charm thy riotous tongue.
    O constancy, be strong upon my side!
    terms, for I am one of those gentle ones that will use the devil
    Which is both healthful and good husbandry.
    Of thy intents desires instruction,
    What torch is yond that vainly lends his light  

Scene VI.

ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. You'll cry for this, minion, if beat the door down.

    deliver'd the matter well, when I find the ass in compound with
    And word it, prithee, piteously. Hence, Mardian,
    Must I go like a traitor thither?
  VIOLA. And what should I do in Illyria?
    Plead a new state in thy unrivall'd merit,
    On whom it will not, so; yet still 'tis just.  

                                                      Exit ANDROMACHE
  LEONTES. You, my lords,

  ROSALIND. Then you must say 'I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.'

    If the dull brainless Ajax come safe off,


  KING. The story, then, goes false you threw it him
    am glad this parcel of wooers are so reasonable; for there is not
    Spread further.
  KING RICHARD. You mock me, madam; this is not the way

    It should be look'd to. Come.                         Exeunt
    And those that leave their valiant bones in France,
    How to forget that learning; but, sir, now  
    Upon offenders hath exceeded law,
    If I have thanks, it is a dear expense.
  WARWICK. Ay, that's the first thing that we have to do;
    I'll to the King my master that is dead,
  GONZALO. I have great comfort from this fellow. Methinks
  KING HENRY. Uncles of Gloucester and of Winchester,
    Welcome, Harry. What, will not this castle yield?
  GREY. To who in all this presence speaks your Grace?
                                       Exeunt PROTEUS and SILVIA
    Myself disgrac'd, and the nobility
    Thy banks with pioned and twilled brims,  
    Her knots disordered, and her wholesome herbs

    to-morrow the wrestling is.
  AGAMEMNON. How?
    You have, enschedul'd briefly, in your hands.  
    been sharp and sententious; pleasant without scurrility, witty
    vizaments in that.
  Nurse. O, she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps;
    Whiles the mad mothers with their howls confus'd
    This day is call'd the feast of Crispian.
  With lesser weight, but not with lesser woe,
     A babe to honour her! If she must teem,  
  How to divide the conquest of thy sight,
LORD DERBY'S house
  Without thy help, by me be borne alone.
    That thou wilt needs invest thee with my honours
  EXETER. But when the Duke is slain they'll quickly fly.
    To-night all friends.
    'Gainst him whose wrongs gives edge unto the swords
  POINS. I warrant you, as common as the way between Saint Albans and
  CLARENCE. A little gale will soon disperse that cloud
  Ben. No, coz, I rather weep.
  SECOND VARRO'S SERVANT. My lord-
  QUICKLY. And have not they suffer'd? Yes, I warrant;
    And now about the cauldron sing,
  SILENCE. You were call'd 'lusty Shallow' then, cousin.
  GLOUCESTER. Not I.
    This night forestall him of the coming day!             Exit

  ARIEL. I do not, sir.
    Your honour and your goodness is so evident
    Thy by-gone fooleries were but spices of it.
  Gored mine own thoughts, sold cheap what is most dear,
  I may be straight though they themselves be bevel;
    Liker in feature to his father Geffrey

London. The palace
  OLIVER. Some of my shame; if you will know of me
    But yet a brain that leads my use of anger
     To his dog-hearted daughters- these things sting
  Pol. My lord, I have news to tell you.
    burnt i' th' hand for stealing of sheep.  
    Than thou hast spoken words?

    Let not light see my black and deep desires.
  ANTONY. [To CAESAR] Thus do they, sir: they take the flow o' th'
  ESCALUS. Why, thou unreverend and unhallowed friar,
    shortly as acerb as the coloquintida. She must change for youth;
  FLUELLEN. God's will and his pleasure, Captain, I beseech you now,
  PRINCE. Ay brother, to our grief, as it is yours.
     Who loses and who wins; who's in, who's out-  
  GLOUCESTER. I hope the King made peace with all of us;
    Besides, I like you not. If you will know my house,
    Than what he stood for, so his gracious nature
    I never gave you aught.
  Ham. And smelt so? Pah!
  PUCK.       Yet but three? Come one more;
    A fellow of the royal bed, which owe
    had the pestilence; to sigh, like a school-boy that had lost his
    mothers; which is most infallible disobedience. He that hangs

    So much as of a thought of ill in him.
    Than that mix'd in his cheek; 'twas just the difference
  THURIO. Considers she my possessions?
    Hath not been us'd to fear. Even now I tremble

    Than can my ears that tragic history.
    And Bolingbroke my sorrow's dismal heir.
  Oph. And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
    So bloodily hast struck.
  POLIXENES. You weary those that refresh us. Pray, let's see these
    Shall in these confines with a monarch's voice
    rather go with sir priest than sir knight. I care not who knows
  SECOND GAOLER. Ay, or a stomach.                Exeunt GAOLERS
  Reg. Sir, being his knave, I will.
    Which, in their throng and press to that last hold,
    Does change my disposition.
    And I'll renew me in his fall. But, hark!
    Have been beholding to him in his life;
  CHARMIAN. Tempt him not so too far; I wish, forbear;
  JOHN. Is my name Talbot, and am I your son?
    Have some malignant power upon my life:
             An if he will come to me.
    Lest, growing ruinous, the building fall
  But were we burd'ned with like weight of pain,
  WHITMORE. There let his head and lifeless body lie,
  BOTTOM. I have a reasonable good ear in music. Let's have the tongs
    Her nine farrow; grease that's sweaten  
    Which by my presence might have been concluded.
    Before we will lay down our just-borne arms,
    Flattering me with impossibilities.
  AUFIDIUS. Do they still fly to th' Roman?
  ORLEANS. And I will take up that with 'Give the devil his due.'
  VALERIA. Fie, you confine yourself most unreasonably; come, you  
    Was feverous and did shake.
    And pinch'd the lily-tincture of her face,
    Cutting the clouds towards Paphos, and her son
    And he that breaks them in the least degree
  SERVANT. I will, my lord.                                Exit.
  CLERK. Emmanuel.

  ALCIBIADES. I cannot think but your age has forgot me;
  Rom. What, shall I groan and tell thee?
    Comes Caesar to the Capitol tomorrow?  
  IMOGEN. Fools are not mad folks.
     If it be you that stirs these daughters' hearts
  TOUCHSTONE. That is another simple sin in you: to bring the ewes
  MIRANDA. Certainly, sir, I can.
    But with his timorous dreams was still awak'd.
  Ham. Mother, you have my father much offended.
    Consider who the King your father sends,
  PERDITA. So long could I
  GRATIANO. Love-news, in faith!
    Unnatural though thou art. Their understanding
    the life of a man; but to counterfeit dying when a man thereby
    And frame my face to all occasions.
    That are recorded in this schedule here.
                 Doth win immortal fame.
  PHEBE. If sight and shape be true,
    And set upon our boasting enemy.

  GONZALO. All things in common nature should produce
      Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
  FABIAN. Now is the woodcock near the gin.
    I know not where I am nor what I do.
    My lord, we must entreat the time alone.
    the court, and no less beloved of her uncle than his own
    And ride upon their backs; he trod the water,
    cheerfully.
  THESEUS. His discretion, I am sure, cannot carry his valour; for
  SELEUCUS,     "     "      "
  TITUS. Come hither, Aaron, I'll deceive them both;
                  a peal of ordnance. Enter soldiers
  Claud. [aside] Bait the hook well! This fish will bite.
    That woe is me to think upon thy woes,
  CASSIO. I think it freely; and betimes in the morning I will beseech


Enter Lady Macbeth.
    At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark.        [Writes.]
    That, when I note another man like him,
    Are idly bent on him that enters next,
    With mine own hands I give away my crown,
    And if thou vanquishest, thy words are true;

    for me, if thy faith be not tainted with the breach of hers. Let

    Is that he was the lord ambassador
  To see his active child do deeds of youth,
  PORTIA. Very vilely in the morning when he is sober; and most
    Before I'll see the crown so foul misplac'd.
     wear;
  FERDINAND. My mistress, dearest;
  DIOMEDES. We sympathise. Jove let Aeneas live,
    For them the gracious Duncan have I murther'd,
    I fear my brother Mortimer doth stir
    I do embrace your offer; and dispose
    Love takes the meaning in love's conference.
  And that unfair which fairly doth excel:
    issue will be, I shall have so much experience for my pains; and
    And he that speaks doth gripe the hearer's wrist,
    To do you justice, make their ministers
  BANQUO. There if I grow,
    As I am sure they do, bear fire enough
    to thee; but being assured none but myself could move thee, I
    O my accursed womb, the bed of death!
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SCENE II.
  Cap. Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail,
    She moves me not, or not removes, at least,
    Bids thee leave these; and with her sovereign grace,
    grain; make edicts for usury, to support usurers; repeal daily
    To raise my state to title of a queen,
    Thou shalt continue two-and-forty hours,
  KING. What's he that wishes so?
    And thou thyself a shearman, art thou not?
    Between the child and parent.                       [Kneels]
    Which join'd with him and made their march for
  ESCALUS. I shall, sir; fare you well.
  Clown. How can that be, unless she drown'd herself in her own
  PISTOL. Hope is a curtal dog in some affairs.
    Than customary bounty can enforce you.
  MENENIUS. Do not cry havoc, where you should but hunt  

  DESDEMONA. Why, your lieutenant, Cassio. Good my lord,
  SUFFOLK. Why, as you, my lord,
    Be pale. I beg but leave to air this jewel. See!
    You may jest on, but, by the holy rood,

    Hath been most sound; I charge you by the law,
  ARMADO. I will visit thee at the lodge.
  LUCIO. [To ISABELLA] Thou'rt i' th' right, girl; more o' that.
    now am I, if a man should speak truly, little better than one of
  CLOWN. Prithee bring him in; and let him approach singing.

  OTHELLO.                   Peace, and be still!
    And we will make thee famous through the world.

    So soon as yours could win me. So it should now,

    And ne'er a true one.
  Friar. Too familiar
                        Re-enter PRINCE HENRY
    I have by hard adventure found mine own.
    Nor shall proud Lancaster usurp my right,
    relish it with good observance. I found him under a tree, like a
    Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill.
    To have't with saying 'Good morrow.'
  FLORIZEL. I yield all this;
  MONTANO.                What is she?

    And choice, being mutual act of all our souls,
  EMILIA. Never.
    If I do die before thee, prithee shroud me
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    What more remains?
    Not Caesar's valour hath o'erthrown Antony,
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. You may guess quickly what.
  Gon. Prescribe not us our duties.
  Oaths of thy love, thy truth, thy constancy,
  MARGARET. I cry you mercy, 'tis but quid for quo.
    To a most dangerous sea; the beauteous scarf
    on my back, under the correction of bragging be it spoken, I
  IACHIMO. I dare thereupon pawn the moiety of my estate to your
    And, lords, accept this hearty kind embrace.
  But that thou none lov'st is most evident:
    And at the sound it shrunk in haste away
    Enter [priests with] a coffin [in funeral procession], King,
    Suspicion all our lives shall be stuck full of eyes;
  Prince. I think it is good morrow, is it not?
    And have no other reason for this wrong
  DESDEMONA. What wouldst thou write of me, if thou shouldst
  NORFOLK.  [Aside to SUFFOLK]  This priest has no pride in him!
    just so many strange dishes. May I be so converted and see with
    The whilst their own birds famish in their nests;
    approbation.
  KING EDWARD. Welcome, Sir john! But why come you in arms?
    And after me, I know, the rout is coming.
  VOLUMNIA. Sweet madam!
  CLOWN. As fit as ten groats is for the hand of an attorney, as your
  Which time and thoughts so sweetly doth deceive.  
    Fit for her turn, well read in poetry
  SEBASTIAN. Methinks I do.
  Wor. Those same noble Scots
    have a desire, as my father shall specify-
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS, DROMIO OF EPHESUS, ANGELO, and BALTHAZAR
    And think upon my bidding.                            Exeunt

  TROILUS. Hector, then 'tis wars.
    Cupid's butt-shaft is too hard for Hercules' club, and therefore
  PAULINA. Then, good my lords, bear witness to his oath.
    To put on yellow stockings, and to frown
    That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
    One jot of ceremony.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  BASSIANUS, brother to Saturninus
    Hereafter more. Bring me into your city,
    Being held a foe, he may not have access
    O, he hath drawn my picture in his letter!
    Seeing the deed is meritorious,  
    And with that word she struck me on the head,
    I am a lamb; but if you brave the Moor,
    Had servants true about me that bare eyes
    honestly.
  CONSTANCE. Grief fills the room up of my absent child,
  OBERON. Give me that boy and I will go with thee.
  PANDULPH. Courage and comfort! All shall yet go well.
    The ne'er-yet-beaten horse of Parthia
    My people are with sickness much enfeebled;

  SECOND GENTLEMAN. He will deserve more.  
    That may repeat and history his los
    Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning cooks.
    Give him all kindness; I had rather have

    Increase your services; so seem as if
  DORSET. Ay, my good lord; and no man in the presence
    The interim having weigh'd it, let us speak
  THE SONG.
  DUKE. That, now you are come, you will be gone. Leave me a while
    there's the short and the long.
  VALENTINE. But tell me, dost thou know my lady Silvia?  
                            [They fight, and all enter the city]
    should quickly leap into wife. Or if I might buffet for my love,
  QUEEN. Of neither, girl;
    As doth a rock against the chiding flood,
    Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?
  CASSIUS. Your voice shall be as strong as any man's
     thine own breeches,
    With entertaining great Hyperion.
  LUCIUS. Set him breast-deep in earth, and famish him;
    But in all places else your master Lucentio.
    To temper poisons for her; still pretending
    Such as will enter at a lady's ear,
SCENE:
  OTHELLO. What sense had I of her stol'n hours of lust?
  Ghost. Revenge his foul and most unnatural murther.
    And very well appointed, as I thought,
    abide 'em; they are very ill-favour'd rough things.
                      Enter an old SHEPHERD
  OTHELLO. Well, thou dost best.
    Could trammel up the consequence, and catch,
    After him, fellows; bring him to the block.
    Argue the end of Edmund Mortimer.



  Now, trust me, were it not against our laws,
    What merit's in that reason which denies
    friend?
    And lie pavilion'd in the fields of France.
    Were factious for the house of Lancaster;

  PAROLLES. Bravely, coragio!                             Exeunt
    smiling. O, pardon me, my stars! Doth the inconsiderate take
  SOOTHSAYER. I have said.
    Telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars,
  TALBOT. A maid, they say.
    wench.
  Ant. In faith, she's too curst.
    The envious load that lies upon his heart;
    I wish my brother make good time with him,
    Of force enough to bid his brother battle;
  EMILIA. I will not charm my tongue; I am bound to speak.
    To pass assurance of a dow'r in marriage
    Now, ye familiar spirits that are cull'd
  Nay, an you will not, sir, I'll take my heels.
    yet to come that she was ever respected with man, woman, or
    Provost, how came it Claudio was beheaded
  BELARIUS. Let us from it.
    How poor Andromache shrills her dolours forth;
    More than a lodg'd hate and a certain loathing
    He dreamt the boar had razed off his helm.

    By some vile forfeit of untimely death.
           Seals of love, but seal'd in vain, seal'd in vain.
    Of such divine perfection, as Sir Proteus.
    The moon into salt tears; the earth's a thief,
  KING HENRY. I said so, dear Katherine, and I must not blush to  
  Pol. Mad for thy love?  
  Rom. Not having that which having makes them short.
    We all were sea-swallow'd, though some cast again,
    Welcome, gentlemen! I have seen the day
    Have blown this coal betwixt my lord and me-
ADRIANA. No, my good lord. Myself, he, and my sister,
    Your brother Richard mark'd him for the grave;
  Against that time when thou shalt strangely pass,
    Figures pedantical- these summer-flies  
  SPEED. Than how?
  And, true to bondage, would not break from thence,
    When I arriv'd and heard thee, that made gape
    But let me to my fortune and the caskets.
    To waste these times. Good hour of night, Sir Thomas!
    For if of joy, being altogether wanting,
                                     Exeunt [Capulet and Paris].
    Which you do live upon; and fit it is,
    old shepherd deliver the manner how he found it; whereupon, after
  AUFIDIUS.  [Aside]  I am glad thou hast set thy mercy and thy
    With wings more momentary-swift than thought.
    I must examine thee. What is thy name?
    Seek me out, and that way I am wife in,
     wooden nether-stocks.
    We should be woo'd, and were not made to woo.
    Know of your love?
  DIOMEDES. The bruit is Hector's slain, and by Achilles.
  HORTENSIO. And so it is. I wonder what it bodes.
    Musing and sighing, with your arms across;
    Which shall be either to this gentleman
    Upon our fail? To this point hast thou heard him
    With one appearing hair that will not follow
    And am right sorry to repeat what follows.
                       WITCH, SOUTHWELL and BOLINGBROKE, guarded
  GLOUCESTER. To thee, that hast nor honesty nor grace.
  DEMETRIUS. And then came Pyramus.
    And breath'd such life with kisses in my lips
    and outrun native punishment, though they can outstrip men they
    And break the foresaid peace. Let the King know,
  BURGUNDY. The King hath heard them; to the which as yet
    Could reach them: I have seen a medicine
    kindnesses I am most infinitely tied. Reflect upon him
           Therefore heaven Nature charg'd
  GREMIO. Why will you mew her up,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Signior Gremio?
  CLOWN. Truly, madam, if God have lent a man any manners, he may
               Never harm
    While I sit lazy by.
  KING. Now, by thy looks
  CASSIO. His bark is stoutly timber'd, and his pilot
  PROSPERO. How? the best?
    Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio
    Lash hence these over-weening rags of France,
  SHALLOW. Yea, marry, Sir John; which I beseech you to let me have
    and wine, and metheglins, and to drinkings, and swearings,

    Doting like me, and like me banished,
    well, he weeps on. Now come I to my mother. O that she could
                     23
    trust me not. Hark! the kings and the princes, our kindred, are
  CLEOPATRA. See where he is, who's with him, what he does.
    inside of a church! Company, villanous company, hath been the
  KING HENRY. No, I am a Welshman.
  ALCIBIADES. Descend, and keep your words.  
    Pard to the hind, or stepdame to her son'-
    And pitch our evils there? O, fie, fie, fie!

    you come from Wales?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Know then, I here forget all former griefs,
    Thus would I wear them out.
  CLEOPATRA. I think so, Charmian. Dull of tongue and dwarfish!
    So tediously away. The poor condemned English,
  KATHERINA. Would Katherine had never seen him though!
    whistle. Blow till thou burst thy wind, if room enough.
  POMPEY. I am as well acquainted here as I was in our house of
  And I to thee engag'd a prince's word,
    And there they fly or die, like scaled sculls
    Ask God for temp'rance; that's th' appliance only
  SATURNINUS. How fair the Tribune speaks to calm my thoughts.
  IMOGEN. Why did you throw your wedded lady from you?
    In these two princely boys! They are as gentle
               Enter BUCKINGHAM and old CLIFFORD
    oath, and the nuptial appointed; between which time of the
  DERCETAS. Thy death and fortunes bid thy followers fly.
    it with my life.
    nation, thwarted my bargains, cooled my friends, heated mine
    And knows all qualities, with a learned spirit,

  WOLSEY. Heaven forgive me!
                      the commoners being with him
    Go, count thy way with sighs; I mine with groans.

    By sick interpreters, once weak ones, is

    I am senseless of your wrath; a touch more rare
    Cast on my noble father.
    I must inform you of a dismal fight
    our habits, and by every other appointment, to be ourselves.
               Trumpets sound. Enter the KING, SCROOP,
    Must strike her sail and learn a while to serve
  SIR TOBY. Give me. [Reads] 'Youth, whatsoever thou art, thou art
    How he may soften at the sight o' th' child:
    Shall rain their drift of bullets on this town.
    Where is he living, clipp'd in with the sea
    To answer their suspicion with their lives.
    This marvel to you.
    [To BASSANIO]  And, for your love, I'll take this ring from you.
    But see his exequies fulfill'd in Rouen.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    And may ye both be suddenly surpris'd
    When sapless age and weak unable limbs
    You were pretty lordings then!
    For the fair kindness you have show'd me here,  
    And not their appetites! I had rather be a toad,
  ANTONY. My being in Egypt, Caesar,
  KING HENRY. Full well hath Clifford play'd the orator,
    Or butchers killing flies.

    What incidency thou dost guess of harm
    Above all princes, in committing freely
    intercepter, full of despite, bloody as the hunter, attends
  HASTINGS. Good morrow, Catesby; you are early stirring.
  SPEED. 'And more faults than hairs'-
  MACDUFF. Turn, hell hound, turn!
  SEBASTIAN. We would so, and then go a-bat-fowling.  
  ARVIRAGUS. Your danger's ours.
    He did discharge a horrible oath, whose tenour
    As I was sometime Milan. Quickly, spirit
    Unapt to stir at these indignities,
  TITINIUS. Hie you, Messala,
  Bene. How doth the lady?
    Commanded always by the greater gust,
A hall in TIMON'S house
    Well may we fight for her whom we know well
    Of that sweet way I was in to despair!
  PANDARUS. To do what? to do what? Let her say what.
    To subjects worse have given admiring praise.
    Desire his jewels and this other's house,
    To camp this host, we all would sup together,
    Which were the greatest obloquy i' th' world  
    But penetrable to your kind entreaties,
    If that thou best a Roman, take it forth;
  KING HENRY. My lords, look where the sturdy rebel sits,
   T'envelop and contain celestial spirits.
    Of good old Abraham! Lords appellants,
    So far as thou wilt speak it.
    (As how should it be so? how otherwise?),
    Is pointing still, in cleansing them from tears.
    Not to deny me, and to pardon me.
    The last of all the Romans, fare thee well!
    To die is to be banish'd from myself,
  LYSANDER. [Waking] And run through fire I will for thy sweet sake.
    surely affected her for her wit.
    And out of all these to restore the King,

  SILVIUS. I would have you.  
    Whose valour plucks dead lions by the beard;
    Should hold her loathed and his spirits should hunt
    That's Christian care enough. For living murmurers
    Where's the cook? Is supper ready, the house trimm'd, rushes
    And, commendable prov'd, let's die in pride.          Exeunt
  CENTURION. If we be not reliev'd within this hour,
     Your horrible pleasure. Here I stand your slave,
    My mother, being heir unto the crown,
                         Enter MARIA
    Except to steal your thoughts, my gentle queen.
  DERBY. Courageous Richmond, well hast thou acquit thee!
    Perform what you command us.
  CORIOLANUS. Choler!
  PAULINA. I say she's dead; I'll swear't. If word nor oath
  SCROOP. Our purposes God justly hath discover'd,
  As thou goest onwards still will pluck thee back,
Enter Regan and [Oswald the] Steward.
    I would you had kneel'd, my lord, to ask me mercy;
  AARON. Ay, like a black dog, as the saying is.
    Skim milk, and sometimes labour in the quern,  
    How thou cam'st here thou mayst.
  Pedro. Why, these are very crotchets that he speaks!
  KING. Good fortune and the favour of the King
    Those that would die or ere resist are grown
  SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'Thou com'st to the Lady Olivia, and in my sight
    had, I saw well chosen, ridden, and furnish'd. They were
    Witness my son, now in the shade of death,

    Crowned with faith and constant loyalty!
    In my bedchamber.
                Enter OLIVIA and PRIEST
    On Thursday next be married to this County.
    To offer it the show of violence;
    His foes are so enrooted with his friends
  EDWARD THE FOURTH
  COMINIUS. That is the way to lay the city flat,
    Being black puts us in mind they hide the fair.  
    Him I forgive my death that killeth me,
  SERVANT. He lies tonight within seven leagues of Rome.
    O brave young Prince! thy famous grandfather
                          Enter SHYLOCK
    This man may help me to his Majesty's ear,
    The substance of my speech. If that rebellion
  MACDUFF. Not in the legions
  ROSALIND. Gentleman,        [Giving him a chain from her neck]
    Stand I before thee here. Then if thou hast
    But yield me to the veriest hind that shall
    And made you to suspect me with the Moor.  
  SERVANT. Sir, Octavius is already come to Rome.
  VIOLA. Why, man?

    I pray thee, let us go and find him out,
  THERSITES. Lo, lo, lo, lo, what modicums of wit he utters! His
    Things to strike honour sad. Bid him recount
    Rouse him and give him note of our approach,
    As hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs,
    That are insinewed to this action,
  CORNELIUS, a physician
  TITINIUS. All disconsolate,
    be conveniently deliver'd, I would he were; for I am now so far
    My griefs cry louder than advertisement.
    And the quaint mazes in the wanton green,
    He ask'd the way to Chester; and of him
  GUARDSMAN. Here is a rural fellow
  DUCHESS OF YORK
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
  MENENIUS. O, he's a limb that has but a disease-
    That Henry born at Monmouth should win all,

  Leon. I learn in this letter that Don Pedro of Arragon comes this
  BOYET. I know not; but I think it was not he.
     As duteous to the vices of thy mistress
  PAROLLES. Though I swore I leap'd from the window of the citadel-
    To find thy brother Bassianus dead.  
  EARL OF OXFORD  
    Tickling a parson's nose as 'a lies asleep,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE

     I will say nothing.
    To offer service to the Duke of Hereford;
  ARCHBISHOP. Good madam, be not angry with the child.
  BUCKINGHAM. To-morrow may it please you to be crown'd?
    And from your womb where you imprisoned were
    But much of grief shows still some want of wit.
    And I would have it suddenly perform'd.
    Even as we are, to equal with the King.
    But there I leave to love where I should love.
  BRUTUS. Good words are better than bad strokes, Octavius.  
    patient here.
    Can lay upon my sin. Yet sinn'd I not
  I love not less, though less the show appear,
    fright me, if they could. But I will not stir from this place, do  
ANGELO. You hear how he importunes me-the chain!
    now; now will I raise the waters.- Talk you of young Master
    And by their vehement instigation,  
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    A hot friend cooling. Ever note, Lucilius,
    For we will make for Ireland presently.
  KING RICHARD. Good Norfolk, hie thee to thy charge;
    Yet, God before, tell him we will come on,
    That I may strive to kill it with a groan.
  ESCALUS. Well, no more of it, Master Froth; farewell. [Exit FROTH]
    The late request that you did sound me in.
    'Tis threefold too little for carrying a letter to your lover.
  Pol. That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.
    With a great power of English and of Scots,
    And cheers these hands that slew thy sire and brother
  ANNE. Some dungeon.
    As if a channel should be call'd the sea-
    Than can the substance of ten thousand soldiers

    My father is not dead, for all your saying.
    To make it known to us.
                               SCENE 4.
  BASSIANUS. The King my brother shall have notice of this.
    I saw him beat the surges under him,
    Of dire combustion and confused events
    ROBERT FAULCONBRIDGE, son to Sir Robert Faulconbridge
    The curtain'd sleep; witchcraft celebrates
    Here is the steed, we the caparison.
  GLOUCESTER. Say'st thou me so? What colour is this cloak of?
    I have many cnemies in Orsino's court,  
    When you are overearnest with your Brutus,
  CORIOLANUS. O mother, mother!
  PUCK.      Up and down, up and down,
    They are but beggars that can count their worth;
                       Re-enter TROILUS

    Than can my care-tun'd tongue deliver him.

    But by my ruin.
    With us in Venice, if it be denied,
  EDWARD. O Warwick, I do bend my knee with thine,
    With colours fairer painted their foul ends.
  OTHELLO. Excellent good. [A trumpet within.] What trumpet is that
    Thou call'dst me King?
    hangman dare not shoot at him. He hath a heart as sound as a
  MACBETH. [Within.] Who's there' what, ho!
  VIOLA. I am a messenger.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    To seek to put me down and reign thyself.
    As my two brothers, happy! but most miserable
    Hang in the air a thousand leagues from hence,
  LENNOX. My young remembrance cannot parallel
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. To whom shouldst thou give it?
    Nor tent to bottom that. But speak.
  Bene. Is't come to this? In faith, hath not the world one man but
  MALVOLIO. Do you know what you say?
  CLEOPATRA. O, that his fault should make a knave of thee  
    Thriftless ambition, that wilt ravin up
    If I might die within this hour, I have liv'd
  Verg. And so am I.
    If sore be sore, then L to sore makes fifty sores o' sorel.
  SHALLOW. It is best, certain.
    Doth more than counterpoise a full third part
  DESDEMONA. Heaven bless us!
    Your hand, your tongue; look like the innocent flower,
    four threes of herdsmen.

    Before whose glory I was great in arms,
    under this tree, or shall we go with you to your chapel?
    And reap the harvest which that rascal sow'd;
  ANTONY. How now, lady!
    Untimely storms make men expect a dearth.
  SOLDIERS. [Speaking together] How now!
  TOUCHSTONE. A ripe age. Is thy name William?
    I had an Edward, till a Richard kill'd him;
  BELARIUS. What hast thou done?

    This is the ape of form, Monsieur the Nice,
  DUMAIN. Room for the incensed Worthies!
    Please you dismiss me, either with ay or no.
  And that is false thou dost report to us.
  ALICE. Les ongles? Nous les appelons de nails.
      Of violent birth, but poor validity;
    sheep-shearing.
    dissolution of it must cure it. Novelty is only in request; and,
    For truth hath better deeds than words to grace it.
    And pardon absolute for yourself and these
  CYMBELINE. My tears that fall
    So desperate thieves, all hopeless of their lives,
  SEBASTIAN. Of that there's none, or little.

    That kill'd thy daughter; villain-like, I lie-
    Thou scarlet sin, robb'd this bewailing land
    Weep thou for me in France, I for thee here;
  ALICE. Oui, vraiment.
    hot venison pasty to dinner; come, gentlemen, I hope we
    Like horse, hound, hog, bear, fire, at every turn.
Enter HOSTESS with two officers, FANG and SNARE
    Either withdraw unto some private place
    indeed to return to their home, and to trouble you with no more
    From me, whose love was of that dignity
      him, certain of the guard, and two SECRETARIES
    Refuse you for my judge, whom yet once more
    For let our finger ache, and it indues
SCENE.- Elsinore.
                     ACT III. SCENE I.
  THERSITES. Agamemnon!
    To give it her. I did so, and take heed on't;

    So do you too, where you perceive them thick.
    for give the dry fool drink, then is the fool not dry. Bid the
    And help to dress your sister's chamber up.
    Here is some gold for thee.
  RIVERS. Then curs'd she Richard, then curs'd she
  SILVIA. O Eglamour, thou art a gentleman-
  MACBETH. Bring me no more reports; let them fly all!
  PANDARUS. Achilles? A drayman, a porter, a very camel!
    with one green leaf on it would have answered her; my very visor
    That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
    With that he gave his able horse the head


    Doth choke the air with dust. In, and prepare.
  Whereto all bonds do tie me day by day,
    to see my ewes graze and my lambs suck.

THE LIFE OF TIMON OF ATHENS
    my leave.
    In readiness for Hymenaeus stand-
    Leave all the rest to me.                            Exeunt.
     That minces virtue, and does shake the head
    The smile mocking the sigh that it would fly
  MARIA. My purpose is, indeed, a horse of that colour.
  RICHARD. Nay, Warwick, single out some other chase;
ACT I. SCENE I.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  KING PHILIP. Well could I bear that England had this praise,
    Became two spouts; the fury spent, anon
  RODERIGO.                   Most grave Brabantio,
    Our knocking has awaked him; here he comes.
    The very instruments of chastisement;
    With cozening hope-he is a flatterer,
  PETRUCHIO. How fares my Kate? What, sweeting, all amort?
    But mark: as in this haughty great attempt
    her so much as sip on a cup with the proudest of them all;  
     shall be there afore you.
    Now are we well resolv'd; and, by God's help
    If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart,
    It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven
ACT I. Scene I.
                     103
    Seem'd all one mutual cry. I never heard
    O'erstunk their feet.
    and Pistol. They carried me to the tavern, and made me
    Whose flood begins to flow within mine eyes;
    To furnish us.
  GLOUCESTER. Poor Clarence did forsake his father, Warwick,
  PROSPERO.  [Aside to ARIEL]  My tricksy spirit!
    That does infect the land; with which they moved
    there, whose villainous saffron would have made all the unbak'd
    and given up himself to the contemplation, mark, and denotement
    perpetual triumph, an everlasting bonfire-light! Thou hast saved
  Ham. Hold off your hands!
  STEPHANO. At thy request, monster, I will do reason, any
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY

  Bora. Go then; find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and the Count
  Ham. Then I would you were so honest a man.
  KING PHILIP. It likes us well; young princes, close your hands.
    I might have said, 'No part of it is mine;
    And, like a Sinon, take another Troy.
The Grecian camp. Before the tent of ACHILLES
    Then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars,
    Like a proud river peering o'er his bounds?

    butcher of a silk button, a duellist, a duellist! a gentleman of

    That means to be of note, begins betimes.
    Of the King's grace and pardon. The grieved commons
  OLIVIA. Your lord does know my mind; I cannot love him.

    Like the brass cannon: let the brow o'erwhelm it
    For that which thou hast done,- must send thee hence
    That all is done in reverend care of her-
    And your good Graces both have well proceeded  
    For I will touch thee but with reverent hands;
    Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
    Things won are done; joy's soul lies in the doing.
                  Enter CLIFFORD and soldiers
    That yon green boy shall have no sun to ripe
  Bene. Signior Leonato, let the friar advise you;
    reason. What sayest thou to this?
    shame and the odd hits.
    For yet a many of your horsemen peer
  Let not my sister read it in your eye;
    mockery, for I know this letter will make a contemplative idiot
    And ran dismayed away.
    give me conserves of beef. Ne'er ask me what raiment I'll wear,
    If you oppose yourselves to match Lord Warwick.
    By fair persuasions, mix'd with sug'red words,
  PETRUCHIO. Now knock when I bid you, sirrah villain!
    Their blood is cak'd, 'tis cold, it seldom flows;
  QUEEN. How fares my gracious lord?
    To walk unbraced and suck up the humors  
    And at the door too, like a post with packets.
    I prithee, Strato, stay thou by thy lord.
    Such I account thy love. Art thou afeard
    pernicious and indubitate beggar Zenelophon; and he it was that
    not amount to a man. For Bardolph, he is white-liver'd and
    Till Holy Church incorporate two in one.
    And, Princes all, believe me, I beseech you,
    Lest we remember still that we have none.
    I' th' eyes of heaven and to you- I mean
    How Falstaff, varlet vile,
    Forsooth, a great arithmetician,
    There hangs a vaporous drop profound;
    guilty of.
  GLOUCESTER. Ay, my lord Cardinal, how think you by that?  
    Ascend his throne, descending now from him-
  MENENIUS. You guard like men, 'tis well; but, by your leave,
                                                         Exit CRANMER  
    Such as it is; and for my own poor part,
  TIMON. All to you. Lights, more lights!
  PAGE. I have heard the Frenchman hath good skill in his
    Then out it goes. What though I know her virtuous
    Such neighbour nearness to our sacred blood
    confess.
    In England and in Ireland, not confessing
    Shall I so much dishonour my fair stars
    If I could see them. Now do thou watch,
  Kent. I have a journey, sir, shortly to go.
    Against the part I come with; so I'll die
    All given to mine ear.
    Till honour be bought up, and no sword worn
    You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
    Out of the gripes of cruel men and give it
    There's livers out of Britain.
  IACHIMO. Will you hear more?
  PANDULPH. Then by the lawful power that I have
  BUCKINGHAM. God and our innocence defend and guard us!
    Whose fortunes shall rise higher, Caesar's or mine?
    Amongst the rar'st of good ones- sitting sadly  
    Upon faint primrose beds were wont to lie,

    I jest to Oberon, and make him smile
    And she did gratify his amorous works
    And your fair princess- goddess! O, alas!
    Since the exile of Posthumus, most retir'd
    will not discover it.
     To foreign casualties, gave her dear rights
    Debts wither 'em to nothing. Be men like blasted woods,

    Nor to one place; nor is my whole estate
    To thee, Posthumus.
    For in the book of Numbers is it writ,
    Receiv'd his love?
    A fault on us, your tribunes, that we labour'd,
    That you would have me seek into myself
    Let's be no Stoics nor no stocks, I pray,
    O, the devil take such cozeners!- God forgive me!
    And, when the tale is told, bid her be judge
    He is not lolling on a lewd love-bed,
    Yonder's the head of that arch-enemy
  WIDOW. Nay, come; for if they do approach the city we shall lose
  Not age, but sorrow, over me hath power.
  CAIUS. By gar, he is de coward Jack priest of de world; he is
    And gave him graceful posture.
    parishioners; for their sons are well tutor'd by you, and their
  ACHILLES. Old Nestor tarries; and you too, Diomed,
    A heart so tender o'er it, take it hence,
    rail in his rope-tricks. I'll tell you what, sir: an she stand
  BARDOLPH. An I might see you there, Davy!
    If you have stomach. The general state, I fear,
  SCARUS. 'Tis easy to't; and there I will attend
    Ten thousand swelling toads, as many urchins,
  GLOUCESTER. [Aside to CLARENCE] Yea, is it so?
    Here, after excursions, enter the HERALD OF FRANCE,
    Where bloody murder or detested rape
    And not without desert so well reputed.
    And we create, in absence of ourself,
    Than shame to th' Romans; and we here deliver,
    And bow'd her hand to teach her fingering,
    What many men desire- that 'many' may be meant
  KING. I would I had; so I had broke thy pate,

  Prince. That ever this fellow should have fewer words than a
  WILLIAMS. You pay him then! That's a perilous shot out of an
    strike at you. Provoke him, that he may; for even out of that
    salvation, the inheritance of it; and cut th' entail from all  
  Rey. As gaming, my lord.
  MARIA. The liker you; few taller are so young.
    be like a jack-an-apes also, to burn the knight with my
    For there, they say, he daily doth frequent
                   Enter PAROLLES guarded, and
  RATCLIFF. What, may it please you, shall I do at Salisbury?
    Addition of his envy! Say, good Caesar,

    Not the world's mass of vanity could make me.
  PROTEUS. Thus have I shunn'd the fire for fear of burning,
    As shall conveniently become you there.'

    To taste of thy most worst? Thy tyranny
  MORTON. Sweet Earl, divorce not wisdom from your honour.

    Ah, simple men, you know not what you swear!
    Cassandra doth foresee; and I myself
    The birds chant melody on every bush;
  Ant. And shall, or some of us will smart for it.
    Could he get me? Sir Robert could not do it:
    Have had resort to you; for here have been
    As we are now glad to behold your eyes-
    And for myself- foe as he was to me-
    From this day to the ending of the world,

  KING HENRY. What, doth my Lord of Suffolk comfort me?
    Thou art too wild, too rude, and bold of voice-
    Talk with respect, and swear but now and then,
    But you gave leave to my unwilling tongue
    basket]  Gentlemen, I have dream'd to-night; I'll tell you my
    That by the top doth take the mountain pine
  GLOUCESTER. Then bid me kill myself, and I will do it;
    Nor bide th' encounter of assailing eyes,
    And hedges his own way. But in this point
  Corn. Keep peace, upon your lives!
    market place.
                                              Exeunt all but BOY
  CRESSIDA. O, a brave man!
    Thou said'st- O, it comes o'er my memory,
  PISTOL. I take thy groat in earnest of revenge.
    and thinks himself made in the unchaste composition.
1594
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    There take an inventory of all I have
CYMBELINE
    Stay not; fly whilst thou art blest and free.
    'Tis hop'd his sickness is discharg'd.
    Use mercy to them all. For us, dear uncle,
  THERSITES. Why, 'a stalks up and down like a peacock-a stride and a
    Away, and mock the time with fairest show:

  OTHELLO. Down, strumpet!
  Ros. My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.  

    Which otherwise would grow into extremes.             Exeunt
    And night doth nightly make grief's length seem stronger
                                         Exeunt [Lear and Kent].
    a solemn leave. His lordship will next morning for France. The
ADRIANA. He came to me, and I deliver'd it.
    son will not be kill'd so soon as I thought he would.  
  SUFFOLK. Because here is a man accus'd of treason:
     Is it not as this mouth should tear this hand  
    heard a man of his place, gravity, and learning, so wide of
    The quarrel of a true inheritor.
    Honour and plenteous safety-that you read
  ANNE. In thy foul throat thou liest: Queen Margaret saw
  And being frank she lends to those are free:
    After a storm; quaff'd off the muscadel,
    I yet not understand the case myself.
    Right glad I am he was not at this fray.
  Bene. In every good thing.
  KING. Lead in your ladies, ev'ry one. Sweet partner,
  COMINIUS. Hath he not pass'd the noble and the common?
  PORTIA. That light we see is burning in my hall.
    In conflict, that you get the sun of them.
  ELBOW. O thou caitiff! O thou varlet! O thou wicked Hannibal! I
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  GLOUCESTER. The gates made fast! Brother, I like not this;
    tell how. But, my lord, his Majesty bade me signify to you that
  GLOUCESTER. But you have done more miracles than I:


    And ere my knee rise from the earth's cold face
  DUKE. Hail to you, Provost! so I think you are.
  EVANS. And leave you your jealousies too, I pray you.
    loves our house. Let me see some more. 'The purpose you undertake
  THE PRINCESS OF FRANCE
    And asking every one for Sir John Falstaff.
  But he's in a suit of buff which 'rested him, that can I tell.
    Who can impress the forest, bid the tree
    I'll see thee hang'd first!
    I should do so in honour. I am in this
    Why should he call her whore? Who keeps her company?
    Solicits here a lady that disdains
    Never lacks power to dismiss itself.
    Aaron will have his soul black like his face.           Exit
    I left out one thing which the Queen confess'd,
  MARCUS. But I will use the axe.
    And in thy sight to die, what were it else
    As very infants prattle of thy pride.
    Grace hath made the match, and all grace say Amen to it!
  So thou through windows of thine age shalt see,
    But win the noble Brutus to our party-
    The dukedom, yet unbow'd-alas, poor Milan!-
    him see our commission and talk no more.
    More blessed hap did ne'er befall our state.
    Out-swell the colic of puff Aquilon'd.
    He is as like thee as a man may be
  HOLOFERNES. Piercing a hogshead! A good lustre of conceit in a turf
                                    Lady Macbeth is carried out.

  BOATSWAIN
  MENENIUS. Hear me one word; beseech you, Tribunes,
    They should find easy penance.
    A wandering vagabond; my rights and royalties
    When devils will the blackest sins put on,

    With any long'd-for change or better state.
SCENE 4.
    That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
    That which shall break his neck or hazard mine
    I will never have her unless thou entreat for her. If you be a
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    And let me wring your heart; for so I shall
    When they are fretten with the gusts of heaven;
    He thought 'twas witchcraft- but I am much to blame;
    At point to sink for food. But what is this?  
    From what we fear, yet know not what we fear,
    I lay unto the grievous charge of others.
    That he did owe him; and I know, my lord,
  In Syracuse was I born, and wed
                     Re-enter PANDARUS
    Borne with th' invisible and creeping wind,
    And at his pleasure will resign my place.

  DESDEMONA. Do you know, sirrah, where Lieutenant Cassio lies?
    For then I should not love thee; no, nor thou
  OTHELLO.                       No, not much moved.  
  CASSIUS. Brutus, I do observe you now of late;
    That thou her maid art far more fair than she.
  ULYSSES. I wonder now how yonder city stands,
  When to unseeing eyes thy shade shines so!  
    So singular in each particular,
    you mean by bidding me taste my legs.  
  PRINCE. O, pardon me, my liege! But for my tears,
  For you in me can nothing worthy prove.  

  MOTH. By saying that a costard was broken in a shin.
  LADY MACBETH. My hands are of your color, but I shame
    You do not understand yourself so clearly
  LAFEU. Hold thee, there's my purse. I give thee not this to suggest
    Have sworn for three years' term to live with me
    One eye thou hast to look to heaven for grace;  
  BRUTUS. Rais'd only that the weaker sort may wish
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Her sweet perfections, with one self king!
  TALBOT. If we both stay, we both are sure to die.
    Is now converted. But now I was the lord  
    And that no lawful means can carry me
    For more than blushing comes to. If your back
                      Enter CELIA, with a writing
    newly come to court Laertes; believe me, an absolute gentleman,
    That he which is was wish'd until he were;
  Leon. All thy tediousness on me, ah?
    see, they are as sick that surfeit with too much as they that
  Ver. Do not, my lord.
    The better act of purposes mistook

    That we will prosecute, by good advice,

  Bal. It doth so, holy sir; and there's my master,
    them both, Master Parson?
    The starry welkin cover thou anon
  As all the metal in your shop will answer.
    into my mortal preparation; and by midnight look to hear further
    Uplift us to the view; in their thick breaths,
  KING RICHARD. What said Northumberland as touching
  IAGO.                                I bleed, sir, but not kill'd.
  FIRST LORD. What time o' day is't, Apemantus?
    Rest on my word, and let not discontent
     To the descent and dust beneath thy foot,
    For Valentine, myself; for Julia, Silvia.

                       Enter ULYSSES
    I am so dishonour'd that the very hour
    Poor shadows of Elysium, hence and rest
    The blind to hear him speak; matrons flung gloves,
    Then let confusion of one part confirm
    And by opposing end them. To die- to sleep-
  SICINIUS. He's sentenc'd; no more hearing.
  SECOND WITCH. By the pricking of my thumbs,

    end, every shop, church, session, hanging, yields a careful man  
    How some men creep in skittish Fortune's-hall,
    And swell so much the higher by their ebb.
    With leaden legs and batty wings doth creep.
    And strokes death to her.
    He robs himself that spends a bootless grief.  
            Upon a valiant race thy harsh
    Come on refresh'd, new-added, and encouraged;
  Lear. When were you wont to be so full of songs, sirrah?
    I, that denied thee gold, will give my heart.
  Some say thy fault is youth, some wantonness,
    Nor would we deign him burial of his men
    Much castigation, exercise devout,
    Where you were tied in duty; and as sorry
                  Athens. ANTONY'S house
                                                   [They retire]
    an ill life with him! He's a very jealousy man; she leads a
  SHALLOW. I cannot perceive how, unless you give me your doublet,
    Though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings,
    Are come to have some conference with his Grace.  
    For I upon this bank will rest my head.
    Which was as gross as ever touch'd conjecture,
    If I have any grace or power to move you,

  WARWICK. Ay, therein Clarence shall not want his part.
  KING HENRY. We hope to make the sender blush at it.
    Mortal revenge upon these traitorous Goths,
TWELFTH NIGHT; OR, WHAT YOU WILL
    And pull her out of Acheron by the heels.

  MRS. PAGE. Truly, I am so glad you have nobody here.
    overtake seventeen years old. It were a goot motion if we
    We should have found a bloody day of this.

    for penance.
    Upon them! Victory sits on our helms.                 Exeunt
  DESDEMONA. A guiltless death I die.
    All you that see her, that she were a maid
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    thou art wise, and thou know'st well enough, although thou com'st
  Ros. I understand you not, my lord.
    However faulty, yet should find respect
    And show fair duty to his Majesty.   [He kneels down]
    Publius, come hither, Caius, and Valentine.
  SECOND CITIZEN. Answer every man directly.
    'Tis but surmis'd whiles thou art standing by,

    But God hath made her sin and her the plague
     rascal! Come your ways!
    All thin and naked, to the numb cold night?

    And for these great affairs do ask some charge,

The forest
    The heir of Cymbeline and Britain, who
    Sluttery, to such neat excellence oppos'd,
  Old Man. Alack, sir, he is mad!  
    That now lies foul and muddy. Not one of them
             Enter CORNELIUS and LADIES
  NYM. Faith, I will live so long as I may, that's the certain of it;
    The goodness of your intercepted packets
    Disguis'd, like Heme, with huge horns on his head.
    Hold, there's a tester for thee.
  Both fire from hence and chill extincture hath.
    for the table than a necessary bencher in the Capitol.
  ARIEL. My master through his art foresees the danger
  KING JOHN. What is thy name?
    kern of Ireland, your French hose off and in your strait
  CATESBY. It's supper-time, my lord;
    Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
    Let your close fire predominate his smoke,
  BEROWNE. This is the liver-vein, which makes flesh a deity,  
    O'er-priz'd all popular rate, in my false brother
    And hate the idle pleasures of these days.
    Not ours, or not allow'd; what worst, as oft
  PHILOSTRATE. SO please your Grace, the Prologue is address'd.
  ANTONY. Now I must
  PHILOSTRATE. There is a brief how many sports are ripe;
    that are written down old with all the characters of age? Have
  HOLOFERNES. Not Iscariot, sir.
  Clown. 'Twill not he seen in him there. There the men are as mad as
    Alas, how love can trifle with itself!
  Kent. Now, good my lord, lie here and rest awhile.
    Obey it on all cause.  
                             Enter Falstaff.
    It is a deed in fashion. Hark thee, Clitus.        Whispers.
    O, know you yet He doth it publicly.
    jealousy! Eleven o'clock the hour. I will prevent this, detect

  THESEUS. The best in this kind are but shadows; and the worst are
  COMINIUS. Should they not,
  DESDEMONA.                     Is't possible?
  THERSITES. Now the pledge; now, now, now!
  AJAX. You cur!                                        [Strikes him]
    out his shoulder-bone; how he cried to me for help, and said his
    Ross. And living too; for now his son is Duke.
    Which thou didst force from Talbot, my brave boy.'
  APEMANTUS. Here is no use for gold.
    That love the fundamental part of state
  KING. Go call the Earls of Surrey and of Warwick;
    Some subtleties o' th' isle, that will not let you
  RICHMOND. If without peril it be possible,
  CLOWN. [Sings] Sir Toby, there you lie.

    Troubled, confronted thus; and, for the extent
    Standing like stone with thee!
      I curse myself, for they are sent by me,
  PORTIA. Thus hath the candle sing'd the moth.
     To grudge my pleasures, to cut off my train,
    Or turn our stern upon a dreadful rock?
    But miserable most, to love unlov'd?
     Lest his ungovern'd rage dissolve the life
    To think I can be undiscernible,

  TAILOR. I have.  
  WARWICK. Mine, full of sorrow and heart's discontent.

    Can be at once, shall step by step attend
    Of more strong link asunder than can ever
    Because his painted skin contents the eye?

    And she for him pleads strongly to the Moor,
  Ghost. Swear.
    gallantly maintain'd the pridge; the French is gone off, look
     To have well-armed friends.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    May fright the hopeful mother at the view,
  OTHELLO. Make me to see't; or at the least so prove it,
    I am afraid my daughter will run mad,
  BARNARDINE. Friar, not I; I have been drinking hard all night, and
  FENTON. I thank thee; and I pray thee, once to-night
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    One that no persuasion can do good upon.
    live a bachelor.
    Fellow Trinculo, we'll fill him by and by again.
    Whilst others come to make him lose at home.


    Didst break that vow; and with thy treacherous blade
    Between us and the Emperor, the Queen's great nephew,
  
  Gads. Stand!
PETRUCHIO'S country house

    Their touch affrights me as a serpent's sting.
  JESSICA. That were a kind of bastard hope indeed; so the sins of my
    How shall I know if I do choose the right?
    Prithee now, say you will, and go about it.
    you well.                       Exeunt BRAKENBURY and KEEPER
  CURTIS. All ready; and therefore, I pray thee, news.
                                                          Music.
    Of lineaments, of manners, and of spirit,
  MRS. FORD. 'Boarding' call you it? I'll be sure to keep him
  PROVOST. But what likelihood is in that?
  SIMPLE. Yes, indeed, does he.
    But as we stand in fear-
  HOSTESS. God's blessing of your good heart! and so she is, by my
  LAUNCE. When a man's servant shall play the cur with him, look you,
    And none your foes but such as shall pretend
    And for her sake do I rear up her boy;
  HERMIA. You, mistress, all this coil is long of you.
    Than other princess' can, that have more time
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    And lastly to confirm that amity
    The art itself is nature.

    bless me, I pray God! for I am never able to deal with my master,
    In what thou hadst to say; so, with good life
    the players ready.
            Re-enter BRUTUS and SICINIUS, the rabble again
  MOPSA. I was promis'd them against the feast; but they come not too

    And with her personage, her tall personage,
  Cap. Come, stir, stir, stir! The second cock hath crow'd,
    The business asketh silent secrecy.  

    But to recover of us, by strong hand

  This said, in top of rage the lines she rents,
    Which he not dreams of.
  VARRO. Calls my lord?
    Fair lords, take leave and stand not to reply.
    'Twill bring you gain, or perish on the seas.
    By cutting off your heads. Thus hath he sworn,
  KING. Body a me, where is it?
  JESSICA. Nay, you need nor fear us, Lorenzo; Launcelot and I are
  Prince. Well, I'll go with thee. Provide us all things necessary
    husband's neck, hardly to be shook off. Je quand sur le
    neat's-tongue, you bull's sizzle, you stockfish- O for breath to
    Or sound so base a parle, my teeth shall tear
    Thus leaning on mine elbow I begin
  SEBASTIAN. You have taken it wiselier than I meant you

    Now fair befall thee and thy noble house!
    Yet have we some revenge. Let husbands know
     madam?
      Enter AENEAS, PARIS, ANTENOR, DEIPHOBUS, and DIOMEDES  
    Half heart, half hand, half Hector comes to seek
    the boat with my sighs.
    Hath often still'd my brawling discontent.          Exit BOY
    To you they have show'd some truth.
    It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
  Pol. This business is well ended.
    Whiles others fish with craft for great opinion,
    very ill.  
    man; go into this closet.  [Shuts SIMPLE in the closet]  He  
                       Re-enter PHILOSTRATE  

  STEPHANO. Be you quiet, monster. Mistress line, is not


    Our cause that she should lie i' th' bosom of  
    More than pertains to feats of broil and battle;
  Alb. If there be more, more woful, hold it in;
  QUEEN. A subtle traitor needs no sophister.
  A thousand groans but thinking on thy face,
    Sings heavy music to thy timorous soul;
    This grisly beast, which Lion hight by name,
    To make this shameless callet know herself.
    To make room for him in my husband's bed.
  SEMPRONIUS
    me. I have good witness of this; therefore I beseech your
  PRINCE OF WALES. Nay, mark how Lewis stamps as he were nettled.
  Host. He? Alas, he is poor; he hath nothing.
  KING EDWARD. Go to, we pardon thee; therefore, in brief,  
    What is't to me when you yourselves are cause,

  Knight. My lord, I know not what the matter is; but to my judgment
    Which would be planted newly with the time,
     labouring i' th' winter. All that follow their noses are led by
    As to offend, himself being offended;
    offenders, and let Time try. Adieu.             Exit ORLANDO
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. 'Fair' in 'all hail' is foul, as I conceive.
  join with the spite of fortune, make me bow,
    Tongue.                                              [Exit.]
  TIMON. Thee thither in a whirlwind. If thou wilt,
  FIRST SENATOR. Tribunes, give way: he shall to th' market-place.
by William Shakespeare
  FORD. Want no money, Sir John; you shall want none.
    Come, I would your cambric were sensible as your finger, that you
    PAINTER
    The secrets of his overcharged soul;
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
    in thee indeed, which I have greater reason to believe now than
    will not stay long. What, John Rugby! John! what, John,
    She hath not given so many good words breath
  GLOUCESTER. Madam, I am Protector of the realm;
  QUINCE. If that may be, then all is well. Come, sit down, every
    I weigh my friend's affection with mine own.
    For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
  GAUNT. O, but they say the tongues of dying men


  TROILUS. How now! What's the matter?
    Ay, every dram of woman's flesh is false,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    To tell us this.
    And craves to kiss your hand and take his leave.
    melancholy, if you will favour the man; but, by my head, 'tis
    [To FABIAN] I have his horse to take up the quarrel; I have
    confines of a tavern, claps me his sword upon the table and says
  But since your worth (wide as the ocean is)
SCENE V.
    For, hearing this, I must perforce compound
    Virtuous and holy, chosen from above
    Where it may see itself. This is not strange at all.
                      Enter the KING, with a paper

    into a toil?
      The night of dew that on my cheeks down flows;
    Be sent for to return from France with speed;
    Like one that comes here to besiege his court,
    Robs the vast sea; the moon's an arrant thief,
     My lady charg'd my duty in this business.
    I have the placing of the British crown.
  IAGO. And for Cassio, let me be his undertaker. You shall hear more
  MONTANO.                  But is he often thus?
    Twenty-three years; and saw myself unbreech'd,
  KATHERINA. I dare assure you, sir, 'tis almost two,
  Leon. O God, counterfeit? There was never counterfeit of passion
  SECOND SERVANT. Here, sir; I'd have beaten him like a dog, but for
    To please his grandam, never trust me more.
    He was as calm as virtue- he began
  Pol. [aside] Though this be madness, yet there is a method in't.-
    Before King Richard in his royal lists?
                   Enter Benvolio with Mercutio.
    When articles too nicely urg'd be stood on.
    carcases of many a tall ship lie buried, as they say, if my

    The gracious Queen, part of this theme, but nothing
  MENENIUS. No, I'll not go. You hear what he hath said
    To win the King as I am bold her honour
Enter TIME, the CHORUS
    Th' advised head defends itself at home;
    Which we of taste and feeling are- for those parts that do
             On whose eyes I might approve
    first emperor of Rome
    Let's reason with the worst that may befall.
    That made the air unwholesome when you cast
    than a general petition of monarchs. Here comes your father.
    smil'd at, their offences being so capital? Tell me, for you seem
    And in no worldly suits would he be mov'd,
    Even now the frozen bosom of the North
  Ben. I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire.
  THURIO. That hath more mind to feed on your blood than live in your
  FALSTAFF. Glasses, glasses, is the only drinking; and for thy
  SECOND COMMONER. Why, sir, cobble you.
   Cock's passion, silence! I hear my master.
  PAINTER. The gods preserve ye!
    And as our vineyards, fallows, meads, and hedges,
  to make a lamp of her and run from her by her own light.
    Besides, her intercession chaf'd him so,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  Whether we are mended, or whether better they,
    Mine eyes are full of tears, my heart of grief.
  ISABELLA. None, but such remedy as, to save a head,
    I have advertis'd him by secret means
  LAFEU. Your distinction?
    Yet nature's tears are reason's merriment.
    conscionable than in putting on the mere form of civil and humane
    I know not what; but formal in apparel,
  SILVIA. Nay, then, he should be blind; and, being blind,
    Be you rememb'red, Marcus; she's gone, she's fled.

  Fal. A goodly portly man, i' faith, and a corpulent; of a cheerful
                                     Exeunt CORIN and TOUCHSTONE
    Said I for this the girl was like to him! I'll
    yet cannot he see, though he have his own lanthorn to light him.
    myself, must I? You have not the Book of Riddles about you,
    Not well dispos'd, the mind growing once corrupt,
  SIR TOBY. Why, how now, my bawcock!
    Nor wittingly have I infring'd my vow.
  SIR TOBY. Why, thou hast put him in such a dream that when the
  AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  Though I am not naturally honest, I am so
    Lest I revenge. What, myself upon myself!
    Who doth permit the base contagious clouds

          Enter Leonato, his brother [Antonio], and the Sexton.
Enter POLIXENES and CAMILLO
  ROSALIND. I have been told so of many; but indeed an old religious

    For thou art fortunate in all thy deeds.
    The stealth of our most mutual entertainment,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. No, no, the bell; 'tis time that I were gone.
    By th' blood we have shed together, by th' vows  

    Do strike at my injustice.                 [HERMIONE swoons]
    mortal knowledge. When I burned in desire to question them
  POMPEY. Nay, I beseech you, mark it well.
    'Tis that they seek; and they, in seeking that,
    Have us'd to conquer standing on the earth
  TUTOR. And I, my lord, will bear him company.
        The pale moon shines by night;
  KATHERINA. Go, get thee gone, thou false deluding slave,
    There, at your meet'st advantage of the time,
    That will not trust thee but for profit's sake?
    So, King, go safely on to seek thy son.               Exeunt
    And all the haunt be ours.- Come, Eros, Eros!
  QUEEN. What noise is this?
    Makes us traduc'd and tax'd of other nations;
    As ours by murder, to make him a king!
    To sacred Delphos, to Apollo's temple,
    shall crave of you your leave that I may bear my evils alone. It
    Or count them happy that enjoy the sun?
    Farewell. My blessing season this in thee!
  EROS. I would not see't.
  MACBETH. If I stand here, I saw him.
    Once more, the more to aggravate the note,
  MACDUFF. O horror, horror, horror! Tongue nor heart
    Without leave-taking? I pray you,
    Roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain;
    Be these the wretches that we play'd at dice for?

    Long ere she did appear. The trees by th' way
    For he was great of heart.
    For in a night the best part of my pow'r,
    As with the tide swell'd up unto his height,
  ENOBARBUS. I saw her once
    Much smaller than the smallest of his thoughts;
  VINCENTIO. You shall not choose but drink before you go;
    John, we have. Our watchword was 'Hem, boys!' Come, let's to
    eyes on thy picture, and my heart on thy every part.
  Hot. And I say the earth was not of my mind,
    In your rich wisdom to excuse or hide
    Place you that side; I'll take the charge of this.
    Have lov'd without this mean, if on both parts
  2. Car. Time enough to go to bed with a candle, I warrant thee.
    To be reveng'd on Rome and Saturnine.                   Exit
  MALCOLM The worthy Thane of Ross.
    I'll draw it as apparent to the crown,
    Higher than both in blood and life, stands up
    Soliciting his wife. Ay, that's the way;
    Already, will their good thoughts call from him.
    Till Henry Bolingbroke, Duke of Lancaster,
    And farewell goes out sighing. O, let not virtue seek
    Master Parson, who writes himself 'Armigero' in any bill,
  And therefore homeward did they bend their course.
  Glou. Weapons? arms? What's the matter here?
    him. I will plant you two, and let the fool make a third, where
    May now, perchance, both quake and tremble here,
    Wept bitterly; and would I might be dead
    knotty-pated fool, thou whoreson obscene greasy tallow-catch-
    alderman's thumb-ring. A plague of sighing and grief! It blows a
    That you should fashion, wrest, or bow your reading,
  JAQUES. More, more, I prithee, more.
  DEMETRIUS. Lysander, keep thy Hermia; I will none.
                         Enter FRIAR PETER
    If I do line one of their hands? 'Tis gold
    Had he done so, himself had home the crown,
    Vengeance is in my heart, death in my hand,
  PROTEUS. Longer than I prove loyal to your Grace
    Her mother liveth yet, can testify
  Balth. And an ill singer, my lord.


    Alas, poor York! but that I hate thee deadly,
    Shall sit and pant in your great chairs of ease,
  Friar. Not in a grave
    Muddy, ill-seeming, thick, bereft of beauty;
    Bar Harry England, that sweeps through our land
  FOOL. Are you three usurers' men?
  GRUMIO. The note lies in's throat, if he say I said so.
     Have followed your sad steps.
  CLOWN. So I do, madonna; but to read his right wits is to read
  MESSENGER. Madam, it is.
    fool to make me merry than experience to make me sad- and to
    The which shall point you forth at every sitting
    I cannot hate thee worser than I do
           Re-enter KING RICHARD, RATCLIFF, attendants,
     Knowledge, and reason, I should be false persuaded
    The King is not himself, but basely led

  MACBETH. Go prick thy face and over-red thy fear,
    And shows good husbandry for the Volscian state,
    For you and I are past our dancing days.
    And follows close the rigour of the statute
  Oph. He took me by the wrist and held me hard;

    Now it is supper-time in Orleans:
Gloucester's Castle.
    He hearkens after prophecies and dreams,
    There were a heart in Egypt.
  John. If you dare not trust that you see, confess not that you
    That they devour their reason, and scarce think
    Which oft our stage hath shown; and, for their sake,
  QUICKLY. And that's a good root.
    And yet methinks I do not like this tune.
    Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
  BRUTUS. I would not, Cassius, yet I love him well.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Have I liv'd thus long-let me speak myself,
  Buried some dear friend? Hath not else his eye
    She came from Libya.  
    He gives me so much of mine own as I
    Or blessed was't we did?
  Mar. O, farewell, honest soldier.
    Each one already blazing by our meeds,
  MACBETH. How say'st thou, that Macduff denies his person
    Because my power is weak and all ill left;
    As flesh of muttons, beefs, or goats. I say,
    Against renowmed Douglas! whose high deeds,

Enter CYMBELINE, LORDS, PISANIO, and attendants
    I am to thank you for't.
                                                    [Exit Lord.]
    little regard in these costermongers' times that true valour is
  Beat. What pace is this that thy tongue keeps?
    For her poor brother's pardon.
    And pride of their contention did take horse,
    Than ever thou lovedst Cassius.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. What is my ransom, master, let me know?
  AARON. Why, so, brave lords! When we join in league
    On Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen;
    Of this man to be vex'd?
    When yond same star that's westward from the pole
    honesty in such dealing; unless a woman should be made an ass and
  ISABELLA. I have no tongue but one; gentle, my lord,
ACT_3|SC_10
  CELIA. It is no boast, being ask'd, to say we are.
  EVANS. Yes, py'r lady! If he has a quarter of your coat, there
    O, what a goodly outside falsehood hath!
    Why so am I: we still have slept together,
  ARCHBISHOP. Let us on,
                     Enter PETRUCHIO and KATHERINA
    And in the wood, a league without the town,
    Said he young Harry Percy's spur was cold?
    My eye's too quick, my heart o'erweens too much,  
  POLIXENES. My best Camillo! We must disguise ourselves.
  QUEEN. Believe me, lords, for flying at the brook,

    Of such possessions, and so high esteem,
    Tend me to-night two hours, I ask no more,
    The iron of itself, though heat red-hot,
    As I have read, laid claim unto the crown;
    In a long motley coat guarded with yellow,
    I am sure I have paid, two rogues in buckram suits. I tell thee
    And let's be red with mirth.
    To thee it shall descend with better quiet,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    There-on my conscience, put unwittingly?
    But what particular rarity? What strange,
    In wrongful quarrel you have slain your son.
  CLOWN. I dare not say he lies anywhere.
  SOLANIO. I think he only loves the world for him.
    Myself was from Verona banished
    Which were the greatest obloquy i' th' world
    And threw the sops all in the sexton's face,
    coronets) and, as I told you, he put it by once. But for all
    And now dispatch we toward the court, my lords.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    I will make proof of thine.           Draws, and wounds Roderigo.
    Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
    charms, by spells, by th' figure, and such daub'ry as this
    No, not a man comes for redress of thee;
    Your fathers taken by the silver beards,

  But for their virtue only is their show,

    Spur your proud horses hard, and ride in blood;
                    Re-enter CRESSIDA
    From Milan did supplant good Prospero;
  Serv. It is, my lord.
  Claud. He is a very proper man.
  KING HENRY. What says she, fair one? that the tongues of men are
    spent.
  HENRY PERCY, surnamed HOTSPUR, his son
    Wretched in this alone, that thou mayst take,
    How will he triumph, leap, and laugh at it!
  HASTINGS. How, wear the garland! Dost thou mean the
  KING. Laud be to God! Even there my life must end.

    Unto their issue.
  Teach me, dear creature, how to think and speak;
    To th' hopeful execution do I leave you
  YORK. I shall be, if I claim by open war.
     When I am known aright, you shall not grieve
  ANTONY. I will be treble-sinew'd, hearted, breath'd,
    And what he is that now is leapt into it.
    I am going, forsooth. The business is for Helen to come hither.
    Come, Desdemona, 'tis the soldiers' life.  
  If I could write the beauty of your eyes,
  Of Corinth that, of Epidaurus this.
    And will maintain what thou hast said is false
    To have her name repeated; all her deserving
    I were unmannerly to take you out
    As high in the air as this unthankful king,
  ROSALIND. Have with you. Fare you well.
    was in a place where I could not breed no contendon with him; but
    I was preserv'd to serve this noble Count.  
    And say you found them in mine honesty.

    Who smirched thus and mir'd with infamy,
  KING EDWARD. Why, then thou shalt not have thy husband's lands.
    I did never know so full a voice issue from so empty a heart; but
  ARCHBISHOP. My brother general, the commonwealth,
    Grace grow where those drops fall! My hearty friends,
    The grave does to the dead; for her male issue
    my soul!                                             [Sings]
    Will conquer him. Awake and win the day.
    It must be great that can inherit us
    These bloody accidents must excuse my manners,
    Clear up, fair Queen, that cloudy countenance;
    He craves a parley at your father's house,
    were a bad recompense for your love to lay any of them on you.
  TRINCULO. O, forgive me my sins!

    The County Paris hath set up his rest
  DUCHESS. Sheriff, farewell, and better than I fare,
  FABIAN. Nay, I'll come; if I lose a scruple of this sport let me be
    And Caesar's spirit ranging for revenge,
  Lear. Then let them anatomize Regan. See what breeds about her
  LEONTES. Good Paulina,  
    And entertain a score or two of tailors
           For my lads to give their dears;
           And loves to live i' th' sun,
    me to say I loved nothing so well as you. But believe me not; and
                                                [They all start]
    Whom he redeem'd from prison. All these
    Marry that will, I live and die a maid.
    To tutor thee in stratagems of war,
    Shore his old thread in twain; did he live now,
    Being tasted, slays all senses with the heart.
    Take thou some of it, and seek through this grove:  
  PUCK. Fear not, my lord; your servant shall do so.      Exeunt
    To them accordingly.

    Why dost thou say King Richard is depos'd?
    That she was coming with a full intent
    That plats the manes of horses in the night
    That gold must round engirt these brows of mine,
    If you should die before him, where's her dower?



     Come on't what will.                                  Exit.
    That makes such waste in brief mortality.
    Hath seen a grievous wreck and sufferance
  When thou didst make him master of thy bed,
    She do defeat us; for her life in Rome
  PANDARUS. What were you talking of when I came? Was Hector arm'd
    Chosen Andronicus, surnamed Pius
    words, swears brave oaths, and breaks them bravely, quite
  BAPTISTA. I must confess your offer is the best;
    His golden uncontroll'd enfranchisement,
  SHALLOW. Go to; I say he shall have no wrong. Look about,
  Or to thy self at least kind-hearted prove,
  TOUCHSTONE. Truly, thou art damn'd, like an ill-roasted egg, all on
  EGLAMOUR. Your servant and your friend;
  CORIOLANUS. No: I'll die here.
  RICHARD. My noble father,

    If my young lord your son have not the day,
    half fish and half a monster?
    Hence with it, and together with the dam
    Whose hand soever lanc'd their tender hearts,
    O, no! the apprehension of the good
    Those many had not dar'd to do that evil
  VIOLA. Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:
    worn as a memorable trophy of predeceased valour, and dare not
    Who was the first of Britain which did put
    men; there be land-rats and water-rats, water-thieves and
    And heap'd sedition on his crown at home.
    That you divest yourself, and lay apart
    I know thee not; why then should I betray thee?
             Now are frolic. Not a mouse
    A beggarly account of empty boxes,
    Cast her fair eyes to heaven, and pray'd devoutly.
    Get you a place.
    By heaven! my wrath shall far exceed the love
    I' th' end admire; where ladies shall be frighted
  OLIVIA. Take the fool away.

    For had I curs'd now, I had curs'd myself.
  BRUTUS. Why, this, Volumnius:
  MACBETH. I have almost forgot the taste of fears:
    Fain would I woo her, yet I dare not speak.
    A worthy officer i' the war, but insolent,
  KING RICHARD. A king of beasts, indeed! If aught but beasts,
  And then believe me, my love is as fair,
  GUIDERIUS. What's the matter, sir?
    And flat meads thatch'd with stover, them to keep;
                    Enter PISANIO
    Yea, what he shall receive of us in duty
  Cor. The jewels of our father, with wash'd eyes
    wilt not call, beshrew thy heart. Welcome, my little tiny thief
    Do not, in grant of all demands at large,
    'Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong;
    where he answers again
    Forgive them what they have committed here,
    Yet doth he give us bold advertisement,
    To better purpose.
    That grief and patience, rooted in him both,
  ANTONY. Can he be there in person? 'Tis impossible-
    my body; for they say bames are blessings.

    Death is my son-in-law, Death is my heir;
    not?
    He will not know what all but he do know.
  VALENTINE. Ay, and we are betroth'd; nay more, our marriage-hour,
  LUCENTIO. That will be never- tune your instrument.
ABBESS. No, not a creature enters in my house.
    Dreading the curse that money may buy out,
    excellence; but to know a man well were to know himself.
  ARIEL. You are three men of sin, whom Destiny,
Enter Mercutio, Benvolio, and Men.
  HELENA. That I am not.
  KING. Blessed are clouds, to do as such clouds do.
SCENE:
Enter AJAX
    In heaps and piles of ruin.
  IAGO.                    Men should be what they seem;
    Most reverend Nestor, I am glad to clasp thee.

    Shall fall you for refusing him at sea,
  AENEAS. Ay, Greek, that is my name.
    How I may be deliver'd of these woes,
    And hum at good Cominius much unhearts me.
     Of how unnatural and bemadding sorrow
  Osr. I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
    That my woe-wearied tongue is still and mute.
    Prince's subjects.
    Receiving them from such a worthless post.              Exit
    Exceeds, in that, the lists of all advice
  By ruffian lust should be contaminate!
    Whiles his most mighty father on a hill
  Ham. I'll be your foil, Laertes. In mine ignorance
  CRESSIDA. Let me go and try.
  YORK. Upon thine honour, is he prisoner?

    they would have hang'd him; and I pray God his bad voice bode no
    Though twenty thousand worthier come to crave her.      Exit
Enter TROILUS armed, and PANDARUS
    Let not the nurse lie with thee in thy chamber.
    But you must flout my insufficiency?
    My maid Nerissa and myself meantime
    O, my lord, y'are tardy,  
    She was too fond of her most filthy bargain.
  Bene. O, she misus'd me past the endurance of a block! An oak but
    Whose own hard dealings teaches them suspect
    been as I took you for, I made no offence; therefore, I beseech  
    Lock up my doors, and when you hear the drum,
    labour. He that loves to be flattered is worthy o' th' flatterer.
    And finds his trusty Thisby's mantle slain;
    His body for a girl that loves him not.

    My fortunes were more able to relieve her;
    Should nothing privilege him nor partialize
    Let me deserve so ill as you, and make me
  'I hate' she altered with an end,
    Which he did end all his, and took some pride
  BERTRAM. And I in going, madam, weep o'er my father's death anew;
    Well, while I live, I'll fear no other thing
    ladyship's pleasure.
    The lass I spoke of.
    To make us strangers to his looks of love.
    [Reads]  'Integer vitae, scelerisque purus,
    Plung'd in the foaming brine, and quit the vessel,
    [To THYREUS] To try thy eloquence, now 'tis time. Dispatch;
    Made wars upon me, and their contestation
  APEMANTUS. Hoy-day, what a sweep of vanity comes this way!
    Thy husband is thy lord, thy life, thy keeper,  
    Yea, from the table of my memory
  MASTER. A thousand crowns, or else lay down your head.
                     Enter the LORDS of the city
    Doth cherish you and yours, God punish me
    She will be pleas'd; then wherefore should I doubt?
    From thence the sauce to meat is ceremony;

    To find the empty, vast, and wand'ring air;
    Destroy'd his country, and his name remains
    That says his bravery is not on my cost,
                                         [Laying down the child]
Gloucester's Castle.
    doth from labouring: thou layest the plot how.
    think of the trade, Pompey? Is it a lawful trade?
  TRANIO. To save your life in this extremity,
    They did not bless us with one happy word.
  

  LUCIUS. Read, and declare the meaning.
    And so, unworthily, disgrace the man,
    stirring, tell her there's one Cassio entreats her a little favor
    to himself and live without it.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    I'll cut thy throat.
  CLEOPATRA. Make thee a fortune from me.
    Most brisky juvenal, and eke most lovely Jew,
    He's simple and tells much.  [To FLORIZEL]  How now, fair
  SURREY. Thy ambition,
    Suspect still comes where an estate is least.
  DEMETRIUS. And thus she moans, videlicet:-
    Colbrand the giant, that same mighty man?
    [To ANNE]  Go thou to Richard, and good angels tend
    With one that in her sex, her years, profession,  
    Worse than a theft, no less than a traducement,
SCENE III.
  ADAM. O unhappy youth!  
                                                     [They draw]
  SILVIA. What's your will?
    To come as humbly as they us'd to creep
    New hatch'd to the woeful time. The obscure bird
    Through whom I might command it? Come thou near.
    And quaff carouses to our mistress' health;
    'Call me not fool till heaven hath sent me fortune.'
    you, Lord Timon!
  CHORUS. Thus with imagin'd wing our swift scene flies,
  Rom. He jests at scars that never felt a wound.
    There shall your master have a thousand loves,
    The sum of all our answer is but this:  
The British camp, near Dover.
    And go well satisfied to France again.

Eastcheap. Before the Boar's Head tavern
  DUKE. Sir Thurio, fear not but that she will love you
  SOLANIO. Not in love neither? Then let us say you are sad
    Poison hath residence, and medicine power;
  PETRUCHIO. A match! 'tis done.
    Since then my office hath so far prevail'd
    Will you go see her?
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
        Do not call it sin in me
    To work mine end upon their senses that
    Glad at the thing they scowl at.
    Pursue her; and for this intelligence
     Modo he's call'd, and Mahu.
    Thou told'st me they were stol'n unto this wood,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    At the park gate; and therefore haste away,
  Are both with thee, wherever I abide,
  CLARENCE. It shall be done, my sovereign, with all speed.
    And let her head fall into England's lap.
  Thou canst not (love) disgrace me half so ill,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    What do I fear? Myself? There's none else by.
    Lord Paris?
  KING HENRY. Why, that's my fortune too; therefore I'll stay.
  DAUPHIN. O Dieu vivant! Shall a few sprays of us,

    As theirs, so mine; and all be as it is.
    roguery to be found in villanous man. Yet a coward is worse than
  BAPTISTA. Now, Signior Petruchio, how speed you with my daughter?
    And if you break the ice, and do this feat,
    It holds his estimate and dignity
    royally entertain'd by Leonato, and I can give you intelligence  
                    Re-enter PANDARUS
  LUCILIUS,     "     "    "
     thy poor heart to woman. Keep thy foot out of brothel, thy hand
    But by the robbing of the banish'd Duke.
    Which end o' th' beam should bow. We have lost your son,
  CLOTEN. Die the death.
  BOLINGBROKE. I shall not need transport my words by you;
  SLENDER. I' faith, I'll eat nothing; I thank you as much as
      Which was declining on the milky head
  PISTOL. Puff!
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Master, here's the gold you sent me
    performance.
     It was great ignorance, Gloucester's eyes being out,
    It was a handkerchief, an antique token
    A cousin-german to great Priam's seed;

    Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,

    Woe to the hand that shed this costly blood!
    Myself the while to draw the Moor apart,
  PORTIA. Brutus, my lord!
Verona. JULIA'S house

    I thank you princes for my daughter's death.
  Ham. That is Laertes,
    A braver soldier never couched lance,
  King. I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him.
    brought in] Come, bring in all together.
    Are, by the laws of Venice, confiscate
    But will they come when you do call for them?
  SECOND SERVANT.Where's Cotus? My master calls for him.

  CORIOLANUS. I sometime lay here in Corioli
    When I'll depose I had him in mine arms,
    And humbly now upon my bended knee,
    Doth it not then our eyelids sink? I find not
  Edg. [aside] How should this be?
    been to him; and then your blood had been the dearer by I know
    That have but labor'd to attain this hour.
    And all the rest revolted faction traitors?
           Of many faces, eyes, and hearts,
    Nay, stay thou out for earnest.          [Keeping some gold]
  CANIDIUS. Well I know the man.

    But keep a farm and carters.
  PISTOL. Then feed and be fat, my fair Calipolis.

  The crow, or dove, it shapes them to your feature.
  FREDERICK. You, cousin.
    That Anne, my wife, is very grievous sick;
  DUKE. That shall not be much amiss; yet, as the matter now stands,
  DESDEMONA. How now, good Cassio! What's the news with you?
    famish'd correctioner, if you be not swing'd, I'll forswear
Enter CLOTEN and LORDS
    Be yok'd with his that did betray the Best!
  Claud. Hearken after their offence, my lord.
  SUFFOLK. I wear no knife to slaughter sleeping men;
    Since she was Cleopatra? Whip him, fellows,
    If thou rememb'rest aught, ere thou cam'st here,
    Bearing the badge of faith, to prove them true?
    Let heaven revenge; for I may never lift
    We'll hear him. Noble Antony, go up.
    faster and faster, till he sink into his grave.
    Deserve not worse than wretched Clarence did,
    If ever any grudge were lodg'd between us;
    The grass whereon thou tread'st the presence strew'd,
  SOMERSET. My lord, I like not of this flight of Edward's;  
    And why thou comest thus knightly clad in arms;
Enter PROTEUS
    belike this is a man of that quirk.  
    hear no more of you.
  O that record could with a backward look,
    In brief, a braver choice of dauntless spirits  
  Bora. Proof enough to misuse the Prince, to vex Claudio, to undo
    May say 'This mercy we have show'd,' the Romans

    I boarded the King's ship; now on the beak,
  Dog. Truly, by your office you may; but I think they that touch
    In the same fashion as you gave in charge;
    without seeking find, and be embrac'd by a piece of tender air;
    Thy friends are fled, to wait upon thy foes;
    I am in all affected as yourself;
    Though strongly apprehended, could restrain
    So many courses of the sun enthroned,

  LENNOX. And that well might
  In seven short years that here my only son
  Rom. By the hour of nine.

    There is a prone and speechless dialect  
  KING. That can never be.
    If I chance to talk a little wild, forgive me;
    A pain that only seems to seek out danger
The forest
    And therefore mine shall save my brothers' lives.
    intelligis, domine? to make frantic, lunatic.
    Your servant's servant is your servant, madam.

    And, for my sake, stay here with Antony.
    So help me every spirit sanctified,
  If that be fair whereon my false eyes dote,
    Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd,
    Would curses kill as doth the mandrake's groan,
    To upstart unthrifts? Wherefore was I born?
    Thy company, which erst was irksome to me,
  Nor shall death brag thou wand'rest in his shade,
    One fire drives out one fire; one nail, one nail;
  COSTARD. This was no damsel neither, sir; she was a virgin.
    Which seasons comfort. Who may this be? Fie!
  MARIANA. I know that knave, hang him! one Parolles; a filthy
    What is the body when the head is off?
    drunk with those that have the fear of God, and not with
    Ask me what question thou canst possible,
    Yet, as they are, here are they come to meet you.
    But stir not you till you have well determin'd
    As oft it loses all. I will be gone.
    Familiar in his mouth as household words-
    I hope all's for the best.
    Will keep a league till death. Hie thee to France,
    Wherein thou art less happy being fear'd
    Speak, for my heart is full.
PETRUCHIO'S house
    Up to the ears. Come, we burn daylight, ho!
    should be?
  GREMIO. Was ever match clapp'd up so suddenly?
    Betwixt our nation and the aspiring French;
    But floods of tears will drown my oratory

    Before the time I did Lysander see,
  Jul. Madam, I am here.
  PORTIA. Of a strange nature is the suit you follow;
    Nay, let me have't; I long.
     To see another thus. I know not what to say.
      both full of disdain
    Like Caesar's sister. The wife of Antony
    His silence will sit drooping.
    Your niece regards me with an eye of favour.
    Shall I endure this monstrous villainy?
    be, that's certain; wise, or I'll none; virtuous, or I'll never
  I would not spare my brother in this case,
    Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers,
    The seeming truth which cunning times put on
  OLIVER. Orlando doth commend him to you both;

    delectable shapes; which delivered o'er to the voice, the tongue,
    Swifter than arrow from the Tartar's bow.               Exit
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Come all his forces back?
    witty now. She does so blush, and fetches her wind so short, as
    shall never see the end of it. Who goes there?
  KING RICHARD. Let them lay by their helmets and their spears,
  DOLL TEARSHEET
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  PHEBE. For no ill will I bear you.

    chiefest of them too. If I cannot ward what I would not have hit,
    Will ye bestow them friendly on Andronicus?
    By length'ning my return. From Gallia

    Between the King and you, and to deliver,
    it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord the prologue. If it
    If it be so, you have wound a goodly clew;

    Were set on Hereford, whom they doted on,
    And Nero will be tainted with remorse
  Being strumpeted by thy contagion.
    Once more, Cesario,
Capulet's house.
  Boy. This is the place. There, where the torch doth burn.
     The crows and choughs that wing the midway air  

    A mankind witch! Hence with her, out o' door!
  My love is strengthened though more weak in seeming,

    Smells wooingly here. No jutty, frieze,
    Would buy this for a lie!
  Reg. I speak in understanding. Y'are! I know't.
  Reserve them till a merrier hour than this.
    A noise of targets, or to see a fellow
  SECOND OFFICER. He hath deserved worthily of his country; and his
    And to his honors and his valiant parts
    He says, to veil full purpose.
    cost him a thousand pound ere 'a be cured.
    Have theirs, themselves, and what is theirs, in compt,
    my substance; if he take her, let him take her simply; the
    demonstrating a careless desolation. But you are no such man; you
    or his laundry, his washer, and his wringer.
    But come at once,
    To pry into the secrets of the state;

  JULIA. Why didst thou stoop then?
    What she should shame to know herself
    A heavy heart bears not a nimble tongue.
  JULIA. I see you have a month's mind to them.
    Captives, to be advanced to this height?  
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, I am loath to gall a new-heal'd wound. Your
    Who should be trusted, when one's own right hand
    Let us pursue him ere the writs go forth.
  HECTOR. Nay, I have done already.
ACT V. SCENE 4.
    but to do myself much right or you much shame. Think of me as you
    Are glad and fain by flight to save themselves.
    Sweet Nell, ill can thy noble mind abrook
    That owe yourselves, your lives, and services,
  VIRGILIA. Beseech you give me leave to retire myself.
Venice. A street
    love her; and that is good English.
    Now will I write letters to Angelo-
  KING. I will take your counsel.
    And over the chair of state, where now he sits,
  Hot. Will not you?  
    Let none think flattery, for they'll find 'em truth.
    And whom, by heaven I swear, I tender dearly,
  MENENIUS. There is differency between a grub and a butterfly; yet
    A murther, which I thought a sacrifice.
    himself, when a knave is not. I have serv'd your worship truly,
  All. Gentlemen!
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  PRINCE OF WALES. Yes, I accept her, for she well deserves it;
              By Cock, they are to blame.
  ESCALUS. If any in Vienna be of worth
    Have wish'd that noble Brutus had his eyes.
     mortar and daub the walls of a jakes with him. 'Spare my grey
    Courage to make 's love known?
    But, omne bene, say I, being of an old father's mind:
    Why, lords, and think you not how dangerous
  Friar. These violent delights have violent ends
  PHEBE. Thou hast my love; is not that neighbourly?
    Away with slavish weeds and servile thoughts!
  MOTH. Then I am sure you know how much the gross sum of deuce-ace
    I will most thankful be; and thanks to men
     Reason, in madness!
    You must eat men. Yet thanks I must you con
  THESEUS. More strange than true. I never may believe
    This small inheritance my father left me
    Methoughts I saw a thousand fearful wrecks,
    that was old Sir Rowland's will I estate upon you, and here live
         PETRUCHIO, with HORTENSIO as a musician; and TRANIO,
    At chamber door? and one as great as you are?
  SURREY. Sharp enough,
    that you should put your lord into a desperate assurance she will
    deliver thy indignation to him by word of mouth.
     His master thus.
Enter Othello, Iago, and Attendants with torches.
  Corn. I set him there, sir; but his own disorders
    Thou hast affected the fine strains of honour,
  HELEN. You shall not bob us out of our melody. If you do, our

    Whose boughs did bend with fruit; but in one night
  TRIBUNE. We will discharge our duty.                    Exeunt

  TIMON. I have so; what of him?
    Chiefly i' the world; more laugh'd at that I should
    me even now before this honest, virtuous, civil gentlewoman!
    please your lordship, a kind of sleeping in the blood, a whoreson
    I would not for the world.

1611
  CALIBAN. I must eat my dinner.
  FIRST WATCH. Stay. Whence are you?
           Hath clawed me in his clutch,
    Between my conscience and my cousin's death.
    Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,

    alehouse. What miserable praise hast thou for her that's foul and
    A breed for barren metal of his friend?-
Dramatis Personae
    Ourselves to end ourselves.
                                        Exeunt Othello and Desdemona.
    And speak to him in many sorts of music,
    Have power to bid you welcome. By your leave,
    I'll interrupt his reading.
    of him admiringly and mourningly; he was skilful enough to have
     Like hold on thee. Let go his arm.
  The broken bosoms that to me belong
    Is the main motive of our preparations,
    In these affairs to aid me with thy counsel.
    plaintiff here, the offender, did call me ass. I beseech you let
    'Ay me!' says one. 'O Jove!' the other cries.
    The pretty wretch left crying, and said 'Ay.'
Enter KING PHILIP, LEWIS, PANDULPH, and attendants
  '"Look here what tributes wounded fancies sent me,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  She now shall be my sister, not my wife.
    Know him I shall, I am well sure of it.  
    'marry her,' I will marry her; that I am freely dissolved,
    Nothing confutes me but eyes, and nobody sees me. Therefore,
    When I should mount with wings of victory.
    Which well appeared in his lineaments,
  KING. Be of good cheer;
              Alack, and fie for shame!
    They sell the pasture now to buy the horse,
  CLIFFORD. Hence, heap of wrath, foul indigested lump,
    And, therefore, as we hither came in peace,  
  Nurse. May not one speak?
    and when a man thanks me heartily, methinks have given him a
  EVANS. Where's Pede? Go you, and where you find a maid  
A room in the Castle.
  GLOUCESTER. His eyes are humbler than they us'd to be.
    Into his title, the which we find
    Exeunt
  SHEPHERD. I cannot speak nor think,

    Fortune makes Nature's natural the cutter-off of Nature's wit.
    That he that breaks a stick of Gloucester's grove
    Being but fourth of that heroic line.
          But mice and rats, and such small deer,
  MOTH. Master, let me take you a buttonhole lower. Do you not see
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Shall see thee withered, bloody, pale, and dead.

    A virtuous gentlewoman, mild and beautiful!

    Good night, good night! As sweet repose and rest
    And in their barks my thoughts I'll character,
SCENE II.
  Leon. Not till Monday, my dear son, which is hence a just
    You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
    Saw you the Cardinal?
  Ben. Here were the servants of your adversary
    If it find heaven, must find it out tonight.           Exit.
     So distribution should undo excess,
                                                 [Sheathes his sword]
    To th' people- Coriolanus, patience!
    remember. And there is pansies, that's for thoughts.
    The brother to the Duke of Burgundy;
    to use me for your own turn, you shall find me yare; for truly,
    Than whereupon our weal, on you depending,
    I care not whither, for I beg no favour,
     When others are more wicked; not being the worst
  Prince. How now, blown Jack? How now, quilt?
    not my Lord Protector.
    loves!
  NERISSA. From both, my lord. Bellario greets your Grace.
    will desire you to live in the meantime, and eat your victuals;
  OTHELLO.             'Tis well I am found by you.
  Pedro. By my soul, nor I!
     No, do thy worst, blind Cupid! I'll not love. Read thou this
    once out of it, it transmigrates.
  SEBASTIAN. What relish is in this? How runs the stream?
    Thrice hath Calpurnia in her sleep cried out,
    Doth oft close in pollution, yet of thee
     Rule in this realm, and the gor'd state sustain.
  Osr. Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as 'twere- I cannot
  PAGE. How? To send him word they'll meet him in the Park
            Doubt that the sun doth move;
    endanger my soul gratis? At a word, hang no more about me,  

  And live no more to shame nor me, nor you.
    So soon as that spare Cassius. He reads much,

    Were now the General of our gracious Empress-
  EVANS. Give ear to his motions: Master Slender, I will

    The eldest son of this distressed queen.

  Fal. Hang ye, gorbellied knaves, are ye undone? No, ye fat chuffs;
  KING RICHARD. What must the King do now? Must he submit?
  Of court, of city, and had let go by
    And worthy shameful check it were, to stand
    And that the trunk may be discharg'd of breath
    For thou hast lost thy princely privilege
    His broken promise, and to give this napkin,
  PANDARUS. Who play they to?
    We need no more of your advice. The matter,
  Jul. It is, it is! Hie hence, be gone, away!
    To see th' enclosed lights, now canopied
Enter GRUMIO
    Or how haps it I seek not to advance  
  LEONTES. Why, he that wears her like her medal, hanging
  Which may her suffering ecstasy assuage,
     in pure kindness to his horse, buttered his hay.
  SILVIUS. Phebe, with all my heart.
    is but three skirts for yourself, in my simple conjectures;
     The winds and persecutions of the sky.
  PORTIA. Let me give light, but let me not be light,
  SICINIUS. We should by this, to all our lamentation,
    You must return and mend it.  
  MACBETH, Thane of Glamis and Cawdor, a general in the King's army
  
    Hath beaten down young Hotspur and his troops,
                                                    Storm still.
    To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me.
    Ay, such a pleasure as incaged birds
                         Enter another MESSENGER
    More than our brother is our chastity.
    I shall be out of heart shortly, and then I shall have no
    They have put forth the haven-
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
             Meet me all by break of day.    Exeunt all but PUCK
  ANTONY. Well said; come on.

     villain! Where is he?
                                 Exeunt GLOUCESTER and MESSENGER
    And fix most firm thy resolution.

    You cast th' event of war, my noble lord,
    And, like ambitious Sylla, overgorg'd
           The shaft confounds
    His fellowship i' th' cause against your city,
    Out of his grace he adds.
    Servants to Lucentio
           (Hey non nony, nony, hey nony)
  FIRST LORD. O, yes, into a thousand similes.
  DOCTOR. Foul whisperings are abroad. Unnatural deeds
    Now, now, you stars that move in your right spheres,
Bohemia. The sea-coast
  SECOND OUTLAW. And I from Mantua, for a gentleman
    Why should you want? Behold, the earth hath roots;
    What figure of us think you he will bear?
            He that brings this love to the
     Thus might he pass indeed. Yet he revives.  
  PROVOST. Who can do good on him?
you good night.
  DOCTOR. Therein the patient
    And hath been tutor'd in the rudiments
    Can snore upon the flint, when resty sloth  
    I mean the learned ones, in Christian kingdoms
    Hadst thou Narcissus in thy face, to me

  IAGO. It's true, good lieutenant.

    But love, first learned in a lady's eyes,
    O' th' jewel House,
    Enow to press a royal merchant down,
    Lust is but a bloody fire,
  YORK. [Within] Open the door, secure, foolhardy King.
    But he would bite none; just as I do now,
  LUCIUS. Who should I swear by? Thou believest no god;  
  KING HENRY. A God's name, see the lists and all things fit;
    Lie not, to say mine eyes are murderers.

    Or rather call my thought a certain knowledge-
    condition.

    But cannot be true servant to my master
    malice itself?
    Helen of Greece was fairer far than thou,
    Nor do I think the man of safe discretion

    Now bind my brows with iron; and approach
    star, or at an earthquake, 'twould mend the lottery well: a man
  Tell her I am arrested in the street,
    And this her easy-held imprisonment
  AUFIDIUS. Even so
     honour, and to no other pretence of danger.
  JAMY,                   "      "  "    "     "  
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    As the sweet Troilus. O you gods divine,  
    And from this swarm of fair advantages
  HECTOR. I must not break my faith.
    With sounding 'Troilus.' I will not go from Troy.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  SEBASTIAN. Belike you slew great number of his people.
  BERTRAM. What of him?
    marvel thy master hath not eaten thee for a word, for thou are
    Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground.
  NATHANIEL. When in the world I liv'd, I was the world's commander;

LOVE'S LABOUR'S LOST
    Revives two greater in the heirs of life;
  BELARIUS. I cannot tell; long is it since I saw him,
    To sound more sweetly in great Caesar's ear
    of Angelo? I may make my case as Claudio's, to cross this in the
  PETRUCHIO. Nay, that you shall not; since you have begun,
     On flickering Phoebus' front-
    And by that destiny, to perform an act
    To let him there a month behind the gest

    We'll talk of that hereafter. Prithee speak,
        Flourish. Enter on the walls, LA PUCELLE, CHARLES,
    And, weakling, Warwick takes his gift again;
  ANTONY. Since Cleopatra died,
    paid too much; purse and brain both empty; the brain the heavier
    Of nature's sale-work. 'Od's my little life,
    He's but a sot, as I am, nor hath not  
    Not that I fear to stay, but love to go
    Which he deserves to lose. Whether he was combined
    Desires this ring; appoints him an encounter;
    To think our former state a happy dream;
    Set honor in one eye and death i' the other  
    Producing forth the cruel ministers
    To his home before us. Fair and noble hostess,
    His sword e'en like a dancer, while I struck

  Fran. O Lord, sir, I'll be sworn upon all the books in England I
  Beat. No; but to the gate, and there will the devil meet me like an
    judge.
    And I will seek for Pindarus the while.        Exit Messala.
                                    Exeunt WARWICK and SALISBURY  
Enter Duncan, Malcolm, Donalbain, Lennox, with Attendants,
  MESSENGER. West of this forest, scarcely off a mile,
    all. Pyramus enter: your cue is past; it is 'never tire.'
  ROSALINE. Great reason; for 'past cure is still past care.'

    to your gracious acceptance, whose trial shall better publish his
    Thou hast amaz'd me. By my holy order,
    imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it

  MRS. FORD. I think my husband hath some special suspicion
    Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st-
  GOWER. Gentlemen both, you will mistake each other.
    For a reply, at least if you make a care
     Well, my legitimate, if this letter speed,  
    Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
  JAQUES. I prithee, pretty youth, let me be better acquainted with
    fellow; and which is more, an officer; and which is more, a
    Do we jest now, think you?

    And other books- good ones, I warrant ye.

    great right to be so- Gerard de Narbon.
    O, 'tis the sun that maketh all things shine!
    Renowned suitors, and her sunny locks
    knowest it not.-
    Save ceremony- save general ceremony?
    That Richard be restored to his blood.
    And make two pasties of your shameful heads;
    He prays but faintly and would be denied;
    And the particular accidents gone by
    And save me so much talking.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    All but in that. Good wax, thy leave. Blest be
    If ever lady wrong'd her lord so much,
    The clamorous owl that nightly hoots and wonders
  KING HENRY. Ay, Clifford; a bedlam and ambitious humour
  CELIA. 'Was' is not 'is'; besides, the oath of a lover is no
    As you in worth dispraise Sir Valentine.
    When she shall lack it.
    Live, and beget a happy race of kings!
  LADY MACBETH. Yet here's a spot.
    Yea, and perhaps with more successful words  
    As I weigh grief, which I would spare; for honour,
     He whom my father nam'd? Your Edgar?
    at nothing.
    Dost think I am so muddy, so unsettled,
                                                  Sennet. Exeunt
    There is not yet so ugly a fiend of hell
    My fore-past proofs, howe'er the matter fall,
              Exeunt all but LAFEU and PAROLLES who stay behind,
    which contract,
    Balk logic with acquaintance that you have,
    Was cursed instrument of his decease.
    Endows a man but he.
    O Signieur Dew, thou diest on point of fox,
    Let me persuade you take a better course.
    When mine is blanch'd with fear.
             So, good night unto you all.


  SURREY. My heart is ten times lighter than my looks.
    occasion.
    My bounties upon you.
  BERTRAM. Do you think I am so far deceived in him?
ADRIANA. To fetch my poor distracted husband hence.
    How now, good fellow! Wouldst thou speak with us?
    the better for you; and there's an end.
    And yet, to satisfy this good old man,
    Confess 'twas hers, and by what rough enforcement
    With all the virtues that attend the good,
    Worthy the note.
          The ousel cock, so black of hue,
    But with advice and silent secrecy.
    To her acceptance: you have let him go
    Thou now requests but moonshine in the water.

    Your stinking greasy caps in hooting at
    Than this; which to reiterate were sin
  WOLSEY. Be't so; proceed.
    And fiends will snatch at it. Cold, cold, my girl?
    But soft! but soft! aside! Here comes the King-
  CLEOPATRA. Nay, pray you, sir.
  BOY. Ay, with my dagger in their bosoms, grandsire.
    That hath to instrument this lower world
                  Enter OXFORD and SOMERSET
    And hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians;
    ever said we were i' th' wrong when we banish'd him.
    Therefore I'll darkly end the argument.
    What is your will?
  Jul. 'Tis but thy name that is my enemy.
  Fal. Both which I have had; but their date is out, and therefore
    fashion, and sung those tunes to the overscutch'd huswifes that
    Be not found here; hence, with your little ones.
    But that it eats our victuals, I should think
    And this is all a liberal course allows:
      world they played for.
  FALSTAFF. Let it alone; I'll make other shift. You'll be a fool  

    O, now doth Death line his dead chaps with steel;
     He dies that strikes again. What is the matter?
    Rememb'ring that my love to her is dead;
    am gone; and she is old, and cannot help herself. You shall have
  FORD. Empty the basket, I say.

  Other. Why, 'tis found so.
    By doing damned hate upon thyself?
    That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
  QUICKLY. The young man is an honest man.
    therefore, if you should deal double with her, truly it were an
    Howe'er unfortunate I miss'd my aim.
  KING HENRY. Have you perus'd the letters from the Pope,
    Or if it be, 'tis with false sorrow's eye,
    this young lady, and I off'red him my company to a willow tree,
    That wash'd his father's fortunes forth of France
    were a good sign that I should quickly have a new father.
    To die by thee were but to die in jest:
    thrown.
  Par. Monday, my lord.
  CLARENCE. Methoughts that I had broken from the Tower
     To have th' expense and waste of his revenues.  
  Hero. Why, you speak truth. I never yet saw man,
Another part of the Park
    So turns she every man the wrong side out
    Which in the scuffles of great fights hath burst
    And made no deeper wounds? O flatt'ring glass,
    To be desir'd to give. It much would please him
    Where one but goes abreast. Keep then the path,
     The injuries that they themselves procure
    That fears him much, and my misgiving still
  KING RICHARD. Barkloughly Castle can they this at hand?
    Bishop of Winchester. But know I come not

    All swol'n and ulcerous, pitiful to the eye,
    hast stuck to the bare fortune of that beggar Posthumus, thou
    For my authority bears a so credent bulk
  KING RICHARD. What comfort, man? How is't with aged Gaunt?
    But tell me whom thou seek'st.
    All sanctimonious ceremonies may  
  WARWICK. Image of pride, why should I hold my peace?
    And then I will proclaim young Henry king.              Exit
    His country's bowels out. And to poor we
  DUMAIN. O vile! Then, as she goes, what upward lies
  TAMORA. Rape and Murder; therefore called so
    His countenance, like richest alchemy,
  GLOUCESTER. By heaven, brat, I'll plague ye for that word.
  CLOWN. If I were not in love with Mopsa, thou shouldst take no
    Under the tide; but now I breathe again
  LADY MACBETH. Nought's had, all's spent,
    But could be willing to march on to Calais
  KING JOHN. To verify our title with their lives.
    What, have you din'd at home?
    chests in Corioli and the gold that's in them. Is the Senate
  SPEED. 'Tis well that I get it so. But, Launce, how say'st thou
    To call upon him; he hopes it is no other
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Thou whoreson, senseless villain!
    Richard cried 'Charge, and give no foot of ground!'
  DUCHESS. It is enough; I'll think upon the questions;
    there is a great coil to-night. Adieu. Be vigitant, I beseech
    Is Gilliams with the packet gone?
    Here, through this grate, I count each one
  BEROWNE. 'Tis more than need.  
    To make my small elves coats; and some keep back
    The height, the crest, or crest unto the crest,
    O, this same thought did but forerun my need,
    Grumio gave order how it should be done.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. I'll tell you in a little. The great Duke.
    See how the morning opes her golden gates
           Exeunt NORTHUMBERLAND, and others, with the prisoners  
    A just and open trial. While she lives,
    Than a great queen with this condition-
    The dam will wake; and if she wind ye once,
    Fortune brings in some boats that are not steer'd.      Exit
  RUGBY. Out, alas! here comes my master.
    Not to break peace, or any branch of it,
    which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God,
  MACDUFF. O, I could play the woman with mine eyes
    house.
    How easy dost thou take all England up!
    I say, a moving grove.
    Pardon me, Edward, I will make amends;
    Hath wash'd thy sallow cheeks for Rosaline!
  Jul. I'll look to like, if looking liking move;
    But doth rebate and blunt his natural edge
    That charge their breath against us? Say, scout, say.

  MESSENGER. He's married, madam.

    Crystal is muddy. O, how ripe in show
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

    And, for our coffers, with too great a court
    Out-rode me. After him came spurring hard
    I that am cruel am yet merciful;
    I can shake off at pleasure.                  Thunder still.
    Or all will fall in broil.
    I tell you, madam, were the whole frame here,
    What was the speech among the Londoners
  Thou art thy mother's glass and she in thee
  Like fools that in th' imagination set
    To you alone.
    And train our intellects to vain delight.
    And we will nothing waste till you return.
    The sun was not so true unto the day
    Or lowly factor for another's gain;
     Thee and thy virtues here I seize upon.  
  Can bring him to his sweet up-locked treasure,
    Burn the great sphere thou mov'st in! Darkling stand
      Enter Poet, followed by Lucilius, Titinius, and Lucius.
    I'll lean upon one crutch and fight with t'other
    That you in pity may dissolve to dew,
  Nor dare I chide the world-without-end hour,
Enter YORK, SALISBURY, and WARWICK
  AENEAS. Good morrow, all.                         Exit with servant
  CASSIUS. So is he now in execution
  
    In good set terms- and yet a motley fool.
    truth out of England but he would make you believe it was done in
    I pray thee sing, and let me woo no more.
    My tender years; and let us not forgo
  WARWICK. And hark ye, sirs; because she is a maid,
    What, was I born to this, that my sad look
  DUMAIN. In reason nothing.

    not worth another word, else I'd call you knave. I leave you.
     Late footed in the kingdom?

    Drawing all things to it. I'll go in and weep-
    to be the decay of lust and late-walking through the realm.
  Ghost. Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing

    And we will fear no poison, which attends
    Do I put up that womanly defense,
    When they go from Achilles. Shall the proud lord
  Edm. Never, my lord. But I have heard him oft maintain it to be fit
    wisely.
    To whom being going, almost spent with hunger,
    To gather our soldiers, scatter'd and dispers'd,
  CELIA.   'Why should this a desert be?
  His man with scissors nicks him like a fool;
    Than yet can be imagin'd or suppos'd.

    Hath made me publisher of this pretence.
  DAUPHIN. O, then belike she was old and gentle; and you rode like a
    Was either pitied in him or forgotten.
  CURTIS. They are.
    Yea, twice the sum; if that will not suffice,
    Scarcity and want shall shun you,
    I am most unhappy in the loss of it.
  In whose confine immured is the store,
    Master Page, we have some salt of our youth in us; we are
    From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
    Between you 'greed concerning her observance?
    Never to marry but by my free leave?
  And by and by clean starved for a look,
  Mess. My lord, here are letters for you.
  Osw. I am scarce in breath, my lord.
    If swift thought break it not, a swifter mean
    You'd call your children yours.
    Than the Queen's life? A gracious innocent soul,
    Care I for the limb, the thews, the stature, bulk, and big
    obey.
Enter SIR TOBY, SIR ANDREW, and FABIAN
  POSTHUMUS. I hope the briefness of your answer made  
  FALSTAFF. Hark thee hither, Mistress Doll.
  LE BEAU, a courtier attending upon Frederick
  Whilst to take order for the wrongs I went,
    In marriage, with a large and sumptuous dowry.
    Would through the airy region stream so bright
  HELENA. O, my good lord, when I was like this maid,
    Will not go off until they hear you speak.
    If opportunity and humblest suit
    For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
  Lear. What hast thou been?
    Now therefore let us hence, and lose no hour
    The trembling lamb environed with wolves.
                       Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
  BASSANIO. We should hold day with the Antipodes,
    Sticking together in calamity.
    Down, ladies; let us shame him with our knees.
    And whether we shall meet again I know not.
        wisdom
                       Re-enter SIMPLE
    clothes are good enough to drink in, and so be these boots too;
  A wretched soul, bruis'd with adversity,
     That you so oft have boasted to retain?
  KING. Berowne, they will shame us; let them not approach.
    Wherein your lady and your humble wife
    Those whose great power must try him- even this,
    Like Niobe, all tears- why she, even she
   Which is a wonder how his Grace should glean it,
    She is as far high-soaring o'er thy praises  
    With blood remov'd but little from her own?
    To those that wring under the load of sorrow,
     Escap'd the hunt. No port is free, no place
  Ham. I would not hear your enemy say so,

  Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy 'Will',
  GRATIANO,     "    "    "     "     "
  Jul. The tears have got small victory by that,
  Which in their wills count bad what I think good?
    Stand in bold cure.
  Edm. Most savage and unnatural!
  ANNE BULLEN, her Maid of Honour, afterwards Queen
    To spend with thee. We must obey the time.
    To dash our late decree in parliament
  SECOND WITCH. Killing swine.
SCENE II.
  DEMETRIUS. No, sir, she shall not, though you take her part.
    Might have been mine! Only I have left to say,
    As great'st does least.
  EVANS. The tevil and his tam! What phrase is this, 'He hears
    Those centuries to our aid; the rest will serve
Enter at one door, KING HENRY, EXETER, BEDFORD, GLOUCESTER, WARWICK,
     Keep me in temper; I would not be mad!

    Let me unkiss the oath 'twixt thee and me;
    I will resist such entertainment till
    Virtuous and fair, royal and gracious.
         With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus


  PAGE. A cur, sir.
Scene III.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Why, is he not with the Queen?
    That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
  DUKE SENIOR. Stay, Jaques, stay.
  Jul. Amen!

  Chor. Now old desire doth in his deathbed lie,

  QUEEN KATHARINE. I am solicited, not by a few,
  Hor. Good my lord, tell it.
    Of fair demesnes, youthful, and nobly train'd,
  SHALLOW. Ha, 'twas a merry night. And is Jane Nightwork alive?  
  FIRST LORD. We are so virtuously bound-
    Which is the best to furnish me to-morrow.
  BERTRAM. What shall be done to him?
  FIRST LORD. Hath the Count all this intelligence?
    Prove that I husbanded her bed in Florence,
Britain. The palace
    To put him to ill thinking.
  PAINTER. It wears, sir, as it grows.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  ANTONY. These many then shall die, their names are prick'd.
    And Troiant Greeks? Nay, rather damn them with
  EMILIA. You have little cause to say so.

    Nature.
  LEONTES. I'll ha' thee burnt.
    Dumb jewels often in their silent kind
    The senators with one consent of love
    The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine;
  BRUTUS. Could you not have told him-
  GLOUCESTER. Your Highness shall do well to grant her suit;
    That from my first have been inclin'd to thrift,
  WILLIAMS. An't please your Majesty, a rascal that swagger'd with me
                        Enter ANTONIO
    parted their fathers. Will it please you to see the Epilogue, or  
  I'll fetch my sister to get her good will.
  AUFIDIUS. Bolder, though not so subtle. My valour's poison'd
  SEBASTIAN. So, you're paid.
    Revenge it, as you love your mother's life,
    Well could I curse away a winter's night,

                              [He and his forces enter the city]
  WOLSEY. Noble lady,
    A sin of perjury: she not denies it.
    Which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest
    lance,
    Will cost my crown, and like an empty eagle
    Or is the adder better than the eel
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Would I had never trod this English earth,
    Upon the foot of fear, fled with the rest;
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    I am as true as truth's simplicity,
    Since nature cannot choose his origin,-
    Your reeking villainy. Live loath'd and long,
    consist of the four elements?
    From th' casque to th' cushion, but commanding peace
    Being spoke behind your back, than to your face.
  ABHORSON. Come on, bawd; I will instruct thee in my trade; follow.
    They stared, and were distracted; no man's life
    Interpretation should abuse and call this
    my sins at the day of judgment!
    transform me to a piece of cheese!
                     38
  CORIOLANUS. Traitor! How now?

  PUCK. My mistress with a monster is in love.
    In peace was never gentle lamb more mild,

  CRESSIDA. At what was all this laughing?
  Pedro. You know he does.


    Half stints their strife before their strokes begin.
  CARDINAL. Thy heaven is on earth; thine eyes and thoughts
    Quicken'd with youthful spleen and warlike rage,
    marriage? I think you would have me say, 'saving your reverence,
    Take from his heart, take from his brain, from's time,
    wither; a full eye will wax hollow. But a good heart, Kate, is
  MOTH. Like the sequel, I. Signior Costard, adieu.
    If I dare eat, or drink, or breathe, or live,
      What to ourselves in passion we propose,
    For revels, dances, masks, and merry hours,

    We both have fed as well, and we can both
    was he born, under a hedge, for his father had never a house but
                      Enter Ghost again.
    Thus once again says Nestor from the Greeks:
  Lords, Pages, Foresters, and Attendants
    What! Camillo there?
  ARMADO. The way is but short; away.
    Only reserv'd, you claim no interest
    Cry woe, destruction, ruin, and decay-
    How were I then uplifted! but, alas,
  DIOMEDES. What, ho! the Emperor's guard! The guard, what ho!
  Bene. Tarry, sweet Beatrice.
  EMILIA. Madam, here comes my lord.
    O Buckingham, take heed of yonder dog!
  PISANIO. [Aside] Or this or perish.
  MRS. PAGE. I pray you, come, hold up the jest no higher.
Scene II.
    For she being fear'd of all, now fearing one;
  Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,

    And given me justice, justice, justice, justice.
    they are taught their manage, and to that end riders dearly
    And in the brunt of seventeen battles since  
    That do no work to-day!
    upon an up-cast to be hit away! I had a hundred pound on't; and

    And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!
  SATURNINUS. Go, fetch them hither to us presently.

            names of POLYDORE and CADWAL, supposed sons to Belarius
                           Enter BOTTOM
    But these mine eyes saw him in bloody state,
  IACHIMO. Should he make me  
                                               [Exit Gentleman.]
  KING PHILIP. Here comes the holy legate of the Pope.
    My love to thee is sound, sans crack or flaw.
    Heaven knows how dearly. My next poor petition
    poor virgin, sir, an ill-favour'd thing, sir, but mine own; a
  QUEEN. 'Twill make me think the world is full of rubs
    Appear unkinglike.
  CAESAR. What, is the fellow mad?
    That he hath turn'd a heaven unto a hell!
  SANDYS. Sir Thomas Lovell, had the Cardinal
  PANDARUS. A whoreson tisick, a whoreson rascally tisick so troubles
    Leave me alone to woo him. Let's away,
    Were there surpris'd and taken prisoners.
    Whose edge hath power to cut, whose will still wills
    Here is a mourning Rome, a dangerous Rome,
  CAESAR. What touches us ourself shall be last served.

  FIRST MURDERER. What we will do, we do upon command.
  FABIAN. Come, let's see the event.
    Bardolph.
    Not you, correct him. My heart weeps to see him
    And bring him jump when he may Cassio find
  ROSALIND. I met the Duke yesterday, and had much question with him.
    Saints in your injuries, devils being offended,
    And for thy maintenance commits his body
    Something mistaken in't.  
    O, that once more you knew but what you are!  
    That dare leave two together. Fare you well.            Exit
  LUCIO. [To ISABELLA) You had marr'd all else.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Much under him; of him I gather'd honour,
  THISBY. Tide life, tide death, I come without delay.
  PLANTAGENET. He bears him on the place's privilege,
  FRENCH SOLDIER. O Seigneur Dieu!
    I, now the voice of the recorded law,
    This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man's funeral;
       With him, the DUKE OF NORFOLK, with the rod of
    And then deny her aiding hand therein,
    Of all the days of the year, upon that day;
    My title's good, and better far than his.
    Give him defense against the elements,
                   Exit Procession, with a great flourish of trumpets
    And talk so like a waiting gentlewoman
  EMILIA.                 Pray you, come in.
    If the King blame me for't, I'll lay ye an
Enter Othello, Desdemona, Cassio, and Attendants.

    But him outlive, and die a violent death.'
    shall's get it?

    Sounds, and sweet airs, that give delight, and hurt not.
  Therefore by law thou art condemn'd to die.
  CARDINAL. [Aside to GLOUCESTER] Marry, when thou dar'st.
    Alone I did it. 'Boy'!
  VIRGILIA. The gods grant them true!
  GARDINER. I have done.
    As for another secret close intent
    Will give you satisfaction, you may have't.

  FIRST GENTLEMAN. My lord, stand back, and let the coffin
     Harbour more craft and more corrupter ends
  MRS. FORD. What, John! what, Robert!
    Pray that their burdens may not fall this day,  
    To hear from me you had left Antony,
    Helen, I love thee, by my life I do;
    foul ways! Was ever man so beaten? Was ever man so ray'd? Was
    Therefore our everlasting farewell take.
    All, away!
    finish'd with his bidding. He wants nothing of a god but
    O, such another sleep, that I might see


    That King Leontes shall not have an heir
  SPEED. Marry, sir, so painted, to make her fair, that no man counts
    lady.                                                [Sings]
    A third is like the former. Filthy hags!
    Thou hast not left the value of a cord;

  'O, that infected moisture of his eye,
    A precious ring- a ring that I must use

ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Well, I'll break in; go borrow me a crow.
  SLENDER. Ay, by these gloves, did he-or I would I might

  IMOGEN. What is the matter, trow?
    But never once again turn back and fly.
  May time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill.
    To be presented by your victories
  LUCIUS' SERVANT. Put in now, Titus.
    the other day talking on the sea bank with certain Venetians, and
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Against your vain assault.
  JAQUES. Rosalind is your love's name?
    Repair me with thy presence, Silvia:
    Scaring the ladies like a crowkeeper;
    A course of learning and ingenious studies.
    Creatures may be alike; were't he, I am sure
    To your so infinite loss, so in our trifles
    Which must approve thee honest. 'If Pisanio
    By wasting ruin of the cruel foe;
    and hanging.
    Gelding the opposed continent as much
                Drum. Enter CADE, DICK THE BUTCHER, SMITH
    And make assurance here in Padua  

  VIRGILIA. Indeed, no, by your patience; I'll not over the threshold
  EVANS.  [Aside to CAIUS]  Pray you use your patience; in
  BEROWNE. Honest plain words best pierce the ear of grief;
    A parasite, a keeper-back of death,
    In what we can, to bridle and suppress
    We shall have each a hundred Englishmen.              Exeunt
    No place will please me so, no means of death,
  VOLUMNIA. Your knee, sirrah.
    house.
    His dews fall everywhere.
  QUINCE. Well, we will have such a prologue; and it shall be written

  CLOTEN. Why, so I say.
  CASSIO. I humbly thank your ladyship.
    Of our fair cousin Dauphin; for we hear


  TROILUS. Why, my negation hath no taste of madness.
ACT IV. SCENE 4.
    Or I will shake thee from me like a serpent.
     That we may wake the King? He hath slept long.
    Who I do think is mine, and love as mine-
    Without defeat. Therefore to France, my liege.
  BARDOLPH.  [ Within]  Bid Mistress Tearsheet come to my master.
    hear the dialogue that the two learned men have compiled in
    To th' utmost of a man, and giddy censure
     Give me an ounce of civet, good apothecary, to sweeten my
  EGLAMOUR. I will not fail your ladyship. Good morrow, gentle lady.
    I trust I may not trust thee, for thy word
                    Enter IDEN, with CADE's head
  DUKE SENIOR. Most Mischievous foul sin, in chiding sin;
                Enter SIR TOBY and SIR ANDREW
    And as he stoop'd again to take it up,
    Whose spirits toil in frame of villanies.  
    If thou read this, O Caesar, thou mayest live;
    Do it in notes.
    Or with some dram conjured to this effect,
    Upon our houses' thatch, whiles a more frosty people

    In all that I can do.
    With all my heart I thank thee for my father!
  ARVIRAGUS. I'll make't my comfort
  PRINCE. For the women?
    teach a scurvy jack-a-nape priest to meddle or make. You
    Such as the fury of ungovern'd youth
  FIRST LORD. He hath perverted a young gentlewoman here in Florence,
  THIRD CITIZEN. Better it were they all came by his father,
                                                     Exit Edgar.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. How doth the King?
  'My mistress, sir,' quoth I; 'Hang up thy mistress;
    With that same purpose-changer, that sly devil,
    And there receive her approbation;
    In any honest suit. She's framed as fruitful
    On pain of punishment, the world to weet
    This is the day of doom for Bassianus;
  KING HENRY. O fair Katherine, if you will love me soundly with your
    I have tir'd myself, and for two nights together
    Nor to no Roman else. So tell them, Publius.
    Their war-like fraughtage. Now on Dardan plains
  MESSALA. It is but change, Titinius, for Octavius
    Dream of impediment! Let me have thy hand.
  ENOBARBUS. He thinks, being twenty times of better fortune,
    A halter, soldiers! Hang him on this tree,
    Lay sleeping on his back. About his neck
  AUMERLE. Faith, none for me; except the north-east wind,
   Than ever at one time the clergy yet
    This day had plotted, in the council-house,
  ANTONY. The world and my great office will sometimes
    Mad ire and wrathful fury makes me weep
    With heads, and not with hands; those whom you curse

    And therefore I will take the Nevils' parts,
  SIR TOBY. Send for money, knight; if thou hast her not i' th' end,

    Or as it were the pageants of the sea-
    See Cassio wipe his beard with.
    cannot avoid, yet to be what I would not shall not make
    That methought her eyes had lost her tongue,
  CORIOLANUS. I will not seal your knowledge with showing them. I
                Enter Lady Macbeth with a taper.  
  But if that I am I, then well I know
             Enter NORTHUMBERLAND attended
  Lear. I would learn that; for, by the marks of sovereignty,
    Must to Corioli back. Send us to Rome
    Whose deadly web ensnareth thee about?
  TIMON. Would thou wert clean enough to spit upon!
  FIRST LORD. O Tullus!
     As may compact it more. Get you gone,
Exit.
    And live with Richmond, from the reach of hell.
    That day he overcame the Nervii.
    enforces.
  ELBOW. Marry, sir, by my wife; who, if she had been a woman
  TIMON. There's never a one of you but trusts a knave
     The ways are dangerous.
                      OBERON behind, unseen

  VALENTINE. Go to, sir; tell me, do you know Madam Silvia?
    To draw the brats of Clarence out of sight,
  Gentlewoman attending on Lady Macbeth
    And if I do not by thy hand, thou art
    Lie drown'd and soak'd in mercenary blood;
    I think it cites us, brother, to the field,
    Did make offence, his eye did heal it up.
    But even the very middle of my heart
    There without ransom to lie forfeited;
    And all they foul that thy complexion lack.
  Bene. Do you question me, as an honest man should do, for my simple
    And work confusion on his enemies.
  POLIXENES. Press me not, beseech you, so.
  EMILIA. What will you do with't, that you have been so earnest
    As if they came from several citizens,
                          Exeunt CLARENCE, BRAKENBURY, and guard
  TIMON. I'll hunt with him; and let them be receiv'd,
    To let the wretched man outlive his wealth,
  Nor can I fortune to brief minutes tell;
    Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
  PROTEUS. Ay, if his enemy deliver it;
    With mine own tongue deny my sacred state,
    For others say thou dost deserve, and I
     Which the most precious square of sense possesses,
    I shall obey you in an fair commands.  
  ORLANDO. I no further offend you than becomes me for my good.
    army.
and at another CAIUS LUCIUS and attendants

    Your state of fortune and your due of birth,
    And sat with me on Neptune's yellow sands,
    And keep me on the side where still I am.  


    This comes too near the praising of myself;
    Hot, hot, and moist. This hand of yours requires
                           Re-enter MALVOLIO
    Lord Junius Brutus sware for Lucrece' rape-
  DESDEMONA. Let's meet him and receive him.
    As far as Belmont.
  He rush'd into my house and took perforce
    We sucking on her natural bosom find;
    break.
    To make prescription for a kingdom's worth.
    Let my tears stanch the earth's dry appetite;
    And play the swaggerer. Bear this, bear all.
    An honest country lord, as I am, beaten
    I do remain as neuter. So, fare you well;
    Though inclination be as sharp as will.
  Fool. [to Kent] Prithee tell him, so much the rent of his land  
    And entrails feed the sacrificing fire,
  PROVOST. [Aside] Pray heaven she win him.
                        Enter AJAX
  Hot. Uncle, adieu. O, let the hours be short  

    He durst not sit there had your father liv'd.
  HUBERT. Why, know you not? The lords are all come back,
    Let him that is a true-born gentleman
    have stables enough, you'll see he shall lack no barnes.
    Therefore the moon, the governess of floods,
    What with the sickness of Northumberland,
  KING. I fill a place, I know't. How long is't, Count,
    Triumphantly tread on thy country's ruin,
                                            [Exit First Player.]
  BASSANIO. Good sir, this ring was given me by my wife;
    About his title and hath sent for you
    We see each grain of gravel-I do know
    I love thee, and 'tis my love that speaks-
    How easily murder is discovered!
  QUEEN MARGARET. So now prosperity begins to mellow
    when I am king- as king I will be
    the orchard.
  And take unmingled thence that drop again
    From this my hand, as holding of the Pope,
    That laid the sentence of dread banishment
    To sit upon a hill, as I do now,
  LORENZO. I will anon; first let us go to dinner.
    To start my quiet.
    a hundred and fifty soldiers, three hundred and odd pounds. I
    Hath put us in these ill-beseeming arms;
    But toiling desperately to find it out-
  KING HENRY. Can any of your neighbours tell, Kate? I'll ask them.
    and, certainly, a woman's thought runs before her actions.
    I'll tell you what-I think it is our way,
  HUBERT. Do not prove me so.
    They whirl asunder and dismember me.
           'As by lot, God wot,'
  Yet this abundant issue seemed to me
    weep,
    Thee never, nor thy traitorous haughty sons,
  SERVANT. You are in the state of grace.
    That Timon's fortunes 'mong his friends can sink.
                                                          Exeunt
  
    I would deny it; but you see my finger
    The splitting rocks cow'r'd in the sinking sands
    you amends, I warrant you.
     Nay, send in time.
    Yourself, renowned Prince, then stood as fair
  KING JOHN. Speak on with favour; we are bent to hear.
    And how she was beguiled and surpris'd,
ACT II. SCENE I.
    The sun for sorrow will not show his head.
  AUMERLE. God save your Grace! I do beseech your Majesty,
    That am with Phoebus' amorous pinches black,
    At meeting tears the cloudy cheeks of heaven.
  ELINOR. Your strong possession much more than your right,
    And either end in peace- which God so frame!-

    But I will go. Go you before me, sirrah;
    To this most patient, sweet, and virtuous wife.
  Prince. I will give thee for it a thousand pound. Ask me when thou
    Word of denial in thy labras here!
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  CAMPEIUS. Most honour'd madam,
    Say so but seldom.
    Go, hie thee, hie thee from this slaughter-house,
    Can justly boast of. What's your lordship's pleasure?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Master, I am here ent'red in bond for you.
  MALCOLM. Well, more anon. Comes the King forth, I pray you?
    King.
    And not to us, but to thy arm alone,
    Before the child himself felt he was sick.
  Hang on such thorns, and play as wantonly,
  Beat. O, on my soul, my cousin is belied!
    Even in the best blood chamber'd in his bosom.
  SATURNINUS. It was, Andronicus.
  CLOWN. What think'st thou of his opinion?
  EMILIA. Yes, a dozen, and as many to the vantage as would store the
    Debate it at their leisure. Welcome, Count;
    To die in ruffian battle? Even at this sight
    I have a servant comes with me along,
  Bene. Peace! I will stop your mouth.             [Kisses her.]
    Hark you, the King is coming; and I must speak with him from the
    Controlling majesty. Alack, alack, for woe,
    You are their heir; you sit upon their throne;
  IAGO. To suckle fools and chronicle small beer.
    of flesh-
  CAESAR. Go charge Agrippa
    For thee to fight,
  LYSANDER. I will, my Hermia. [Exit HERMIA] Helena, adieu;
  SHYLOCK. Antonio shall become bound- well.
                Enter Malcolm and old Siward.
    All the occurrences, whatever chanc'd,
  FIRST LORD. A thousand pieces.
  Urs. Come, come, do you think I do not know you by your excellent

    Cannot stand under them: if you omit
  They rightly do inherit heaven's graces,
    That policy may either last so long,
    humbly beseech your lordship to have a reverend care of your
  ALL. He hath confess'd. Away with him! He's a villain and a  
  PORTIA. Ay, that's a colt indeed, for he doth nothing but talk of

  HOST. Hark, hark!
    Who, in a bloody field by Shrewsbury,
  HERMIONE. The Emperor of Russia was my father;
    To have the courtesy your cradle promis'd,
    Will you be mine now you are doubly won?
    A child shall get a sire, if I fail not of my cunning.
  TITINIUS,     "     "    "
    Hence! I am qualmish at the smell of leek.
  Edg. The prince of darkness is a gentleman!
    in nativity, chance, or death. Away.
                BRUTUS and SICINIUS come forward
    Did Claribel her husband find at Tunis;
    Whither straight I'll lead you.
    Kingdoms are clay; our dungy earth alike
    an ass, which is no great hurt.
    last.
    Not what you are, I know it will excuse
    With Valentinus in the Emperor's court;
    But knows he thinks that he knows Isabel's.
    When the suspicious head of theft is stopp'd.
  CASSIUS. Of your philosophy you make no use,
  And to his robbery had annexed thy breath,
  Cor. So young, my lord, and true.

  KING RICHARD. Zounds, who is there?
  BOLINGBROKE. Yet ask.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    A young man married is a man that's marr'd.
    All feasts, societies, and throngs of men!
    Given ear to our complaint-of his great grace
                       Enter FORD disguised
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  OCTAVIUS. Let us do so, for we are at the stake,
    A visage of demand; for I do fear,
    Yea, let them say, to stick the heart of falsehood,
    truncheon you out, for taking their names upon you before you
    Where it should guard. O war, thou son of hell,
    Call this a lightning? O my love! my wife!
  Edg. Yet better thus, and known to be contemn'd,
    The dint of pity. These are gracious drops.
    And 'tis a kind of good deed to say well;

    As to be cast forth in the common air,
    of my nation?
    And perfected by the swift course of time.
    For thy part, Claudio, I did think to have beaten thee; but in
              Here they both call him. The Drawer stands amazed,
  ARMADO. It doth amount to one more than two.
    With open mouth swallowing a tailor's news;  
                     Re-enter Ghost.
    That gallant spirit hath aspir'd the clouds,
  SECOND MURDERER. Make peace with God, for you must die,
    For piercing steel and darts envenomed
    Is not my teeming date drunk up with time?
  GUIDERIUS. Than be so,  
    A priest, there off'ring to it his own heart.                Exit
  FIRST LADY. Hark ye:
  If it were chain'd together, and therefore came not.
Rome. Before the Capitol

    Be more myself.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    My life upon't, young though thou art, thine eye
    To ransom home revolted Mortimer.
  BAGOT. Then set before my face the Lord Aumerle.
  BUCKINGHAM. You cloudy princes and heart-sorrowing
    Arrogant Winchester, that haughty prelate
    And make the meanest of you earls and dukes?
    That in your country's service drew your swords;
    Sole imperator, and great general
  GLOUCESTER. Stay, you that bear the corse, and set it down.
    Behind our rock, and let it to the sea
    And, that once gotten, doubt not of large pay.        Exeunt
    Are sent to Pomfret, and with them
    And weep ye now, seeing she is advanc'd
    Resides not in that man that does not think-
    My father and my uncle and myself
  SANDYS. Your Grace is noble.
          with lutes in their hands, dancing and playing
    That love my friend, and that they know full well
  Edm. I hear my father coming. Pardon me!
  
    Yet in such rule that the Venetian law
    Swear not by time to come; for that thou hast
    I lose your company; therefore forbear a while.
  MESSENGER. Take no offence that I would not offend you;
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  CALIBAN. Good my lord, give me thy favour still.

    degree, neither in estate, years, nor wit; I have heard her
    And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
    Thou art a Roman- be not barbarous.
    Derives itself to me.  [Putting on the crown]  Lo where it sits-
    We will untread the steps of damned flight,  
    That Lucentio indeed had Baptista's youngest daughter.
ACT II. SCENE I.
  FLUELLEN. I peseech you heartily, scurvy, lousy knave, at my
    credit with your worship. The knave is mine honest friend, sir;
  THERSITES. Dost thou think I have no sense, thou strikest me thus?
    Had been my father's sons! Then had my prize
    A blasting and a scandalous breath to fall


    So, get thee gone, that I may know my grief;
    Under whose heavy sense your brother's life
                          Enter BEROWNE
    This gentle offer of the perilous time.
  LAUNCE. Ay, that she can.
    News from Verona! How now, Balthasar?
    No, if I digg'd up thy forefathers' graves
  ANTONIO. I am more serious than my custom; you
  ISABELLA. My power, alas, I doubt!
  PORTIA. Sir, grieve not you; you are welcome not withstanding.
    And, sir, it is no little thing to make


  DEMETRIUS. Villain, what hast thou done?
  Friar. Hold! Get you gone, be strong and prosperous
    Made use and fair advantage of his days:
    The very life seems warm upon her lip.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    A fellow of no mark nor likelihood.
    that point.
    Collected for this expedition.
    Some good man bear him carefully from hence;
    Which makes the silver rivers drown their shores,
  QUEEN. Beseech your patience.- Peace,
    Whiles I in Ireland nourish a mighty band,
  Edm. No, by mine honour, madam.
    He and Aufidius can no more atone
    They must lie there. Go carry them, and smear
    Adieu, and take thy praise with thee to heaven!
  STANLEY. What men of name resort to him?
SECOND MERCHANT. I dare, and do defy thee for a villain.
    forward, doth it?
    To join your hearts in love and amity.
    A goodly apple rotten at the heart.
       Sound a parley. The SENATORS appear upon the walls
  GRUMIO. Face not me. Thou hast brav'd many men; brave not me. I
  DUKE. What, Curio?
    Shall send between the Red Rose and the White
  CHARMIAN. My arm is sore; best play with Mardian.
  BOLINGBROKE. On Wednesday next we solemnly set down
    Speak that-

    But thou shalt hear it. Whistle then to me,
     Almost t' acknowledge hers.
    flatter them for their love.
    No, no, they would not do so foul a deed;
  KING HENRY. We must not only arm t' invade the French,
  Balth. I love you the better. The hearers may cry Amen.
  LORD. Madam, and nothing else; so lords call ladies.
    Your Highness knows. Their nurse, Euriphile,  

    When, both your voices blended, the great'st taste

    Nor knows he how to live but by the spoil,
    Quenching the flame of bold rebellion
  FREDERICK. You will take little delight in it, I can tell you,  
  TIMON. Enough to make a whore forswear her trade,
    Such an immodest raiment- if shame live
  KING HENRY. What stronger breastplate than a heart untainted?
    And be not proud; though all the world could see,
    As a long-parted mother with her child
  CASCA. Peace, ho! Caesar speaks.
    And occupations perish!
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  Ber. Say-
  Kent. The same-
    And so, farewell, for I must hence again.             Exeunt

    Clap round fines for neglect. Y'are lazy knaves;
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  KING RICHARD. Norfolk, for thee remains a heavier doom,
                      playing at chess
    Join'd with an enemy proclaim'd, and from his coffers
    As two yoke-devils sworn to either's purpose,
    And let us once again assail your ears,
     Old fools are babes again, and must be us'd
    Commends his good opinion of you to you, and
    Your eyes, half out, weep out at Pandar's fall;

    that thou mightst not lose the dues of rejoicing, by being
    I will some other be- some Florentine,
    Do pelt so fast at one another's pate
    Consorted with that harlot strumpet Shore,
    In the division of each several crime,
    So, fare you well at once, for Brutus' tongue
    And his commission to employ those soldiers,
  OUTLAWS, with Valentine
    where, indeed, you have a delight to sit, have you not?
    Your infants in your arms, and there have sat
  SUFFOLK. Farewell, sweet madam. But hark you, Margaret
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
  FIRST SOLDIER. Do you know this Captain Dumain?
  FABIAN. Give ground if you see him furious.
  OLIVIA. Blame not this haste of mine. If you mean well,
  HERMIONE. Verily!  
      To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt.
  CASSIO. She that I spake of, our great captain's captain,
  Fool. A spirit, a spirit! He says his name's poor Tom.
  ISABELLA. I know your virtue hath a license in't,

    Nor shall my Nell keep lodgers.
    They surfeited with honey and began
    think I told him true, that your Grace had got the good will of
  PORTIA. Have by some surgeon, Shylock, on your charge,
    When Antony found Julius Caesar dead,
COURTEZAN. Now, out of doubt, Antipholus is mad,
                   Enter Varro and Claudio.  
    With thy embracements to my wife's allies,
  CATESBY. Ay, my good lord.
    And say what thou seest yond.
           Enter KEEPER
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Will soon be drawn to head, from whence he moves
    You foolish shepherd, wherefore do you follow her,
     Might in their working do you that offence
    the less worth. Off with't while 'tis vendible; answer the time
    Sirs, I will practise on this drunken man.

    His looks are full of peaceful majesty;

  Prince. What, none?
    And she a fair divided excellence,
  Ros. [to Polonius] God save you, sir!
    O thou dull god, why liest thou with the vile
  EXETER. For shame, come down; he made thee Duke of York.
    And hedg'd me by his wit to yield myself
     What is't thou say'st, Her voice was ever soft,
  FORD. Any thing.
  THYREUS. 'Tis your noblest course.
  BIONDELLO. Softly and swiftly, sir, for the priest is ready.
    That might have mercy on the fault thou gav'st him;
    With Tarquin's ravishing strides, towards his design
  POMPEY. Sir, if it please your honour, this is not so.
    toasted cheese.
  LORENZO. Madam, with all my heart

    Treason, foul treason! Villain! traitor! slave!
    mine?
    We will with some strange pastime solace them,
  BUCKINGHAM. I do, my lord, but long I cannot stay there;
  With her I liv'd in joy; our wealth increas'd
  CYMBELINE. To my grief, I am
    the death of Hermione, visited that removed house. Shall we
  PETRUCHIO. 'A has a little gall'd me, I confess;
    Which shall to all our nights and days to come
  TITUS. We attend his lordship; pray signify so much.
    and he sings psalms to hornpipes. I must have saffron to colour
    would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would

    In my most ill-composed affection such
    Why that the naked, poor, and mangled Peace,

    to notify unto her.
  ANTONY. You wrong this presence; therefore speak no more.
Enter DUKE and THURIO
    That I am Prospero, and that very duke
  CHAMBERLAIN. Sir Thomas,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself,
  APEMANTUS. I flatter not, but say thou art a caitiff.
EPILOGUE
  GROOM. So proudly as if he disdain'd the ground.
    is to be up late.
    No faith, proud mistress, hope not after it;
  MRS. FORD. Why, this is the very same; the very hand, the
  FLUELLEN. Ay, I praise God; and I have merited some love at his
    Come here himself to question our delay;
    Thus raps you? Are you well?
  MACBETH. LENNOX. What's the matter?

  Kent. Of Albany's and Cornwall's powers you heard not?
  Ben. We talk here in the public haunt of men.
    Fitting my bounty and thy state, I'll give it;
    The great prerogative and rite of love,  
    The whole realm by your teaching and your chaplains-
  FIRST OFFICER. That's a brave fellow; but he's vengeance proud and
  ANGELO. This will last out a night in Russia,
    [A shout and flourish]  Hark! the trumpets.
  CATESBY. It is, my liege; and all things are in readiness.
ACT I. Scene I.

    It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night
    This way fall I to death.
     This hurt you see, striving to apprehend him.
    So dry he was for sway, wi' th' King of Naples,
  Therefore desire (of perfect'st love being made)
    But who can cease to weep, and look on this?
  WARWICK. I came from Edward as ambassador,
  ALCIBIADES. Why, fare thee well;
    As now our flesh is banish'd from this land-
    But that my nails can reach unto thine eyes.
  Cur. Nay, I know not. You have heard of the news abroad- I mean the
    No natural exhalation in the sky,
    More fresh in Julia's with a constant eye?
                     86  
  CLARENCE. His eye is hollow, and he changes much.
  ENOBARBUS. Upon her landing, Antony sent to her,
    I never had honest man about me, I.
  PANDARUS. No, no, no such matter; you are wide. Come, your disposer
  ARMADO. Almost I had.
    Hermione hath suffer'd death, and that
  POMPEY. Yes, faith, sir.
  VIOLA. That you do think you are not what you are.
  LORENZO. He is not, nor we have not heard from him.


    Strike heaven on the face, that it resounds
                     70
    and wife and all, from me.
  KING HENRY THE FIFTH
    what's their offence; sixth and lastly, why they are committed;
  HASTINGS. Indeed, I am no mourner for that news,
    and our noble general Othello!                            Exeunt.
    Awakes my heart, to heart's and eye's delight.

    Appear i' th' market-place, nor on him put
    With this slave's offal. Bloody bawdy villain!
    witch, you hag, you. baggage, you polecat, you ronyon!
    And dare avow her beauty and her worth
  JULIA. Alas!
    Hath sullied all his gloss of former honour
    I hear the King my father is sore sick.  
  FIRST BROTHER. When once he was mature for man,
    And we are govern'd with our mothers' spirits;
  BERTRAM. There's letters from my mother; what th' import is I know
    That end upon them should be executed.
  CHARLES. Then come, o' God's name; I fear no woman.
                   Enter SIR JOHN SOMERVILLE
  BASTARD. If thou didst but consent
    And you the Queen on't.
  CLARENCE. I know it pleaseth neither of us well.
    Of his true state.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. I will; and therefore keep it. Rosaline,  
    fashion, yours is worth ten on't.
    That I have worn a visor and could tell
  MRS. PAGE. So will I; if he come under my hatches, I'll never
    Upon a tawny front. His captain's heart,
  LEONTES. I thought of her
      DAUPHIN and driveth him. Then enter JOAN LA PUCELLE
    So worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
    The blood, and dearest-valu'd blood, of France.
    So sweet and voluble is his discourse.
    Whom we invite to see us crown'd at Scone.
    Swear by my sword.
    Proceeded to you; therefore take your honours.
    will not hurt you.
    To a most base and vile-concluded peace.
  ELINOR. Out on thee, rude man! Thou dost shame thy mother,
  HASTINGS. I go, my lord.
Dramatis Personae
    For girls of nine- O, think what they have done,
  POINS. Why, a prince should not be so loosely studied as to
  GLOUCESTER. Ten is the hour that was appointed me
  RUGBY. Alas, sir, I cannot fence!
    This night to play before him.


    Give me the daggers. The sleeping and the dead
                           Enter Messenger.

    Parcel the sum of my disgraces by
  SON. And must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
                   Enter the GHOST of CLARENCE
    I give my daughter to him, and will make
     All levied in my name, have in my name
  BAGOT. If judgment lie in them, then so do we,
    So then two bosoms and a single troth.
    That she did make defect perfection,
    In fortune's love? For then the bold and coward,
    For which the pardoner himself is in;
  CLOTEN. I am near to th' place where they should meet, if Pisanio
    virgin.
    To prison with her. And away with him.
    On Saturday we will return to France.
     Bring oil to fire, snow to their colder moods;

  ADRIAN. Uninhabitable, and almost inaccessible-
    myself to walk. The time When? About the sixth hour; when beasts
            To join in Hymen's bands,

  VALENTINE. Peace, villain!
    And all the more it seeks to hide itself,


  BIONDELLO. Who? that Petruchio came?
  MENENIUS. His nature is too noble for the world:
  No news but health from their physicians know.
    That she may quickly come.
  Being forbid? There, take you that, sir knave.
  CELIA. Gentle cousin,
    Then afterward up higher; but there is
      Persuade my heart to this false perjury?
    Our messenger Chatillon is arriv'd.
    They pitched in the ground confusedly
  WILLIAM. Five and twenty, sir.
    Would leave your griefs, and take my counsel.
    Whether yond troops are friend or enemy.
    and farewell."
  CAMILLO. My lord,
           Buy, lads, or else your lasses cry.
  Queen. Have you forgot me?
  Then should I spur though mounted on the wind,
             Shall not in their issue stand;
    Fairies, be gone, and be all ways away.       Exeunt FAIRIES
  SLENDER. Ay, it is no matter.
  CLEOPATRA. Cut my lace, Charmian, come!
    That you should have an inch of any ground
  Lords, Officers, Soldiers, etc., French and Florentine  
    He was the mark and glass, copy and book,
    Abortives, presages, and tongues of heaven,
    Or else good night your vow!

  LUCULLIUS. La, la, la, la! 'Nothing doubting' says he? Alas, good
    That she that makes me sin, awards me pain.
    Pompey the Great; and Suffolk dies by pirates.
         Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
    Her pastures' grass with faithful English blood.
  CONSTANCE. Now shame upon you, whe'er she does or no!
  SLY. Yes, by Saint Anne do I. A good matter, surely; comes there
    Away with me, all you whose souls abhor
    The purposes I bear; which are, or cease,
    The pleasure that some fathers feed upon
  Pet. O, I cry you mercy! you are the singer. I will say for you. It
    I prithee turn aside and weep for her;
    Have hither march'd to your endamagement;
    A stop i' th' chaser, a retire; anon
  Pedro. The greatest note of it is his melancholy.
    O, had the monster seen those lily hands
    A sword whose temper I intend to stain
    knew for.
    Go to the King; and let there be impawn'd
    And kneel, sweet boy, the Roman Hector's hope;
  VALENTINE. Ay, my good lord; a son that well deserves
  Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
    The uncertain glory of an April day,
    This other doth command a little door  
  CLOWN. Faith, sir, 'a has an English name; but his fisnomy is more
    Blow off thy cap; praise his most vicious strain,  
    This night he makes a supper, and a great one,
  JULIA. His little speaking shows his love but small.
    This music crept by me upon the waters,  
    But even with law against the wilful sons
    That thee may furnish, and my prayers pluck down,
Another part of the plain
                                        [He whispers in his ear]
  Reg. Why is this reason'd?
  KATHERINA. What is your sir, that you send for me?
    Have laid this woe here. O, 'tis pregnant, pregnant!
  BOY. At your own house; there he unarms him.
     Past speaking of in a king! Thou hast one daughter
 Exit
           And knows me, and knows me,
  IAGO.                 Well, my good lord, I'll do't.
  ISIDORE'S SERVANT. Your steward puts me off, my lord; and
  WIDOW. Then never trust me if I be afeard.
King Richard the Third
    purchasing.
  MALCOLM. I grant him bloody,
    He that hath a will to die by himself fears it not from another.
                        Enter GRANDPRE
  Cor. Nothing, my lord.
  DUMAIN. O most divine Kate!
    The noble Paris and true Romeo dead.
  AN OLD LADY, friend to Anne Bullen
                                              [Flourish. Exeunt]
    And her pale fire she snatches from the sun;
    And, vanquish'd as I am, I yield to the
    Being fond on praise, which makes your praises worse.
Enter THERSITES, solus
    Be not disturb'd with my infirmity.
  ENOBARBUS. He needs as many, sir, as Caesar has,
    Here is her picture; let me see. I think,
  FRENCH SOLDIER. O, je vous supplie, pour l'amour de Dieu, me
    Let her awhile be secretly kept in,
  Lear. 'Tis strange that they should so depart from home,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Or daring-hardy as to touch the lists,
    Hirtius and Pansa, consuls, at thy heel
    As you feel doing thus; and see withal
    When we have here her base and pillar by us.
  PAROLLES. By my troth, sir, if I were to live this present hour, I
    And let his very breath whom thou'lt observe
The sea-coast
    And would not put my reputation now
    I am content to hear; for 'tis as easy
    I know he'll quickly fly my friendship too.
  STEPHANO. There is not only disgrace and dishonour in
    O, here it is. Uncle, I must come forth.
    Nor how my father would enforce me marry
    Resolv'd to carry her. Let her in fine consent,
    To find persistive constancy in men;
    rogue! He lives upon mouldy stew'd prunes and dried cakes. A  
    Was never holla'd to, nor cheer'd with horn,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  CADE. Be brave, then, for your captain is brave, and vows
    She never had so sweet a changeling;
    Stumbling in fear, was took. The sum of all
    Of direst cruelty! Make thick my blood,
    Is come with a great power to raise the siege.
  LODOVICO. O bloody period!
    We split, we split! Farewell, my wife and children!
    Richer than all his tribe; of one whose subdued eyes,
    Into a thousand oaths; and all those oaths
    And pray her to a fault for which I chid her.
  CLOWN. Truly, Fortune's displeasure is but sluttish, if it smell
    Heaven knows, they were besmear'd and overstain'd
    The kings that have revolted, and the soldier
    Of my conception. The state whereon I studied
    When we have chid the hasty-footed time
  Ben. At thy good heart's oppression.

    Thou hast seal'd up my expectation.
    That the fix'd sentinels almost receive
  AGUECHEEK. Pox on't, I'll not meddle with him.
    tell her of it.                              [Exit Antonio.]
    Much marked of the melancholy Jaques,
    And welcome, Somerset. I hold it cowardice
  IACHIMO. The chimney
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE
  And for what cause thou cam'st to Ephesus.
  KING HENRY. Why, then, thou know'st what colour jet is of?
      And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
  BRUTUS. We stood to't in good time. Is this Menenius?
    Despairing, died.
    backward, we'll put you i' th' fills.-Why do you not speak to

    Of the Lord Bonville on your new wife's son,
  DUKE. Give me thy hand;
    and PAGE]  If I were sawed into quantities, I should make four
  Fool. Why? For taking one's part that's out of favour. Nay, an thou
  FIRST SOLDIER. I perceive, sir, by our General's looks we shall be
    And see you read no other lectures to her.
                                               Exeunt from above  
  KING. Methought you said  
    sister. But mark how heavily this befell to the poor gentlewoman:
    That fill his ears with such dissentious rumours.
    To-morrow are let blood at Pomfret Castle;

  KING JOHN. How goes the day with us? O, tell me, Hubert.
    Until that act of parliament be repeal'd
  LUCETTA. Ay, if you thought your love not cast away.
  MOWBRAY. O, let my sovereign turn away his face
    A sure and safe one, though thy master miss'd it.
    will condole in some measure. To the rest- yet my chief humour is
    Still quiring to the young-ey'd cherubins;
  GLOUCESTER. Name not religion, for thou lov'st the flesh;
    But what is not.
    Was it not yesterday we spoke together?
    And I will pamper it with lamentation.
    For 'tis a chronicle of day by day,
    What scene of death hath Roscius now to act?
The rebel camp near Shrewsbury.
    For every cloud engenders not a storm.
  CORIOLANUS. We will before the walls of Rome to-morrow
    And though thou now confess thou didst but jest,  
    Of that same noble prelate well-belov'd,
    Be so much more the man. Nor time nor place
    Repent in their election.                   Exeunt plebeians
  FEEBLE. I would Wart might have gone, sir.
    And spurn upon thee, beggar, for thy boldness.
  CRESSIDA. By the same token, you are a bawd.
    The other yet may rise against their force.
    And, being angry, does forget that ever
    For beauty, wit,
  For I have sworn deep oaths of thy deep kindness:
    But, sure, I fear we shall not win him to it.
SCENE VI.
  GLOUCESTER. Peel'd priest, dost thou command me to be
  And why dost thou deny the bag of gold?
  ENOBARBUS. When she first met Mark Antony she purs'd up his heart,
    accusation; and briefly, I desire nothing but the reward of a
                            SCENE II. Rome. CAESAR'S house
  MESSALA. Where did you leave him?
    slomber, ay'll de gud service, or I'll lig i' th' grund for it;
  SHYLOCK. My own flesh and blood to rebel!
    Know, worthy prince, Sir Valentine, my friend,
    Both disobedience and ingratitude
  CLOWN. Why, it hath bay windows transparent as barricadoes, and the

    Besides, I heard the banish'd Norfolk say
  Osw. A proclaim'd prize! Most happy!
  CONSTANCE. If thou that bid'st me be content wert grim,
    And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
London. The Boar's Head Tavern in Eastcheap
    By no assay of reason; 'tis a pageant
  PISTOL. Nym, thou hast spoke the right;
    It is concluded: Banquo, thy soul's flight,
  MARIA. How do you, Malvolio?
  The right of sepulchres, were shorn away,
    Till George be pack'd with posthorse up to heaven.
    Nor suffer others.
    For I must tell you friendly in your ear:
    Ah, cousin York! would thy best friends did know
  
    That all your acts are queens.
    Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
    mother.
    especially of my own people, who best know him, that I am
    As would take in some virtue. O my master!
    Complotted and contrived in this land
    new tuners of accent! 'By Jesu, a very good blade! a very tall
    in with such weak breath as this? No, you are deceiv'd; therefore
    The elements be kind to thee and make
    Wretched shall France be only in my name.
  Laer. Know you the hand?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. No, trust me, sir, nor I.
    And underwrite in an observing kind
    Jove knows what man thou mightst have made; but I,
     That bide the pelting of this pitiless storm,
    Of butcher'd princes fight in thy behalf.
    A guard of patience. Stay a little while.
  MRS. PAGE. By your leave, sir. I am sick till I see her.
  JOHN. No part of him but will be shame in me.
    Where thou shalt find me sad and solitary.      Exit PROTEUS
    My parks, my walks, my manors, that I had,
    I think I should have told your Grace's tale.

  Laer. I pray you give me leave.
    Shall tender duty make me suffer wrong?
  SOLANIO. 'Tis vile, unless it may be quaintly ordered;
    I was of late as petty to his ends
    Why, this is flat knavery to take upon you another man's name.  
    swinge-bucklers in all the Inns of Court again. And I may say to
    When thou didst hate him worst, thou lovedst him better
  With others thou shouldst not abhor my state.
  Prince. The complaints I hear of thee are grievous.
    maid, widow, nor wife.
           That Silvia is excelling;
    I'll to him; he is hid at Laurence' cell.
                    [Enter a Servant.]
    Vouchsafe me, for my meed, but one fair look;
    Were in the Washes all unwarily  

     Quite from his nature. He cannot flatter, he!
    A base Walloon, to win the Dauphin's grace,

                      MARIA, and KATHARINE
  If the true concord of well-tuned sounds,
    Upon agreement from us to his liking,
    Bring the strong poison that I bought of him.
    Then, for the third part of a minute, hence:
    Off with my boots, you rogues! you villains, when?
    anything we see. We'll have a speech straight. Come, give us a
    Could have persuaded me. Now I dare not say
    So first the harmless sheep doth yield his fleece,
    Hear it not, Duncan, for it is a knell
  FOURTH CITIZEN. You have deserved nobly of your country, and you
    Since Cxsar's fortunes!
    Before the sun rose he was harness'd light,
    They clap the lubber Ajax on the shoulder,
    it wants matter to prevent so gross, o'er-reaching as this?
    Unless I flatter with myself too much.
  IMOGEN. Why, I must die;  
  TIMON. Thou saw'st them when I had prosperity.
    And bring Aeneas and the Grecian with you.
    persuading me to it.
    For villains mark'd with rape.- May it please you,
    Of base insinuating flattery,
    To deck our soldiers for these Irish wars.
  BISHOP OF ELY. Where is my lord the Duke of Gloucester?
    his eye, talks like a knell, and his hum is a battery. He sits in  
    Do you love me, master? No?


  THIRD SERVANT. O slaves, I can tell you news- news, you rascals!
  Which from Love's fire took heat perpetual,

  CLAUDIO. Thus can the demigod Authority
    Did as a prophet weep what it foresaw
    And since we are o'erset, venture again.

    Outlives incertain pomp, is crown'd before.

    Be not deceived; if I have veil'd my look,
  VALENTINE. Not for the world! Why, man, she is mine own;  
    Lie where the light foam of the sea may beat
  Kent. Why, madam, if I were your father's dog,
    Now march we hence. Discharge the common sort  
    Some slain before, some dying, some their friends

  CAESAR. Cowards die many times before their deaths;
    For I have more to commune with Bianca.                 Exit
    will, after he hath laugh'd at such shallow follies in others,
    With such discourse as, I not doubt, shall make it
    And time hath worn us into slovenry.
  CHARLES. What tidings send our scouts? I prithee speak.
the DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM and the LORD ABERGAVENNY
    And with the clamour keep her still awake.
  MESSENGER. Well, madam, and in health.
    But in that crystal scales let there be weigh'd
  KING. Did you hear the proclamation?
    Unless Bellario, a learned doctor,
  PAROLLES. That's it; I would have said the very same.
    For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
    Of happy holding her.
      Away!
   Of indigent faint souls, past corporal toil,
    His insolence draws folly from my lips;
    And such a flood of greatness fell on you-
    at Hallowmas, Master Froth?
    Your bugle eyeballs, nor your cheek of cream,
  PEDANT. I know him not, but I have heard of him,
  ABERGAVENNY. I do know
    The nature of his great offence is dead,
LUCIANA. How hast thou lost thy breath?

    your mother's commandment; if not, your pardon and my return
  DORCAS. Bless me from marrying a usurer!  
  VOLUMNIA. Thou art my warrior;
Enter a SHIPMASTER and a BOATSWAIN
  TOUCHSTONE. The more pity that fools may not speak wisely what wise
  LARTIUS. No, Caius Marcius;
    And with his former title greet Macbeth.
[Beating him]
    As is the other for beauteous modesty.

SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Did violate so itself.
    I know no law; bring them away.
    Hie therefore, Robin, overcast the night;
    Our general himself makes a mistress of him, sanctifies himself
    To his own portion! And what expense by th' hour
  Jul. Do not swear at all;
    Because-

    Draw after her. Pardon what I have spoke;
  HUBERT. Peace; no more. Adieu.
  VAUX. To signify unto his Majesty
    Minding true things by what their mock'ries be.         Exit
    You having lands, and bless'd with beauteous wives,
    Either our history shall with full mouth
    But conquer'd merely.

DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Marry, sir, besides myself, I am due
    There is some space.
    And hear him mock the Frenchman. But heavens know
  BOYET. Her mother's, I have heard.
    Think you I am no stronger than my sex,
  Edg. Away, old man! give me thy hand! away!
      honour
               Enter OXFORD, with drum and colours
  PUCK. Here, villain, drawn and ready. Where art thou?
    Wherever in your sightless substances
  BRUTUS. Why shall the people give
    minstrels of us, look to hear nothing but discords. Here's my
                                 Alarums. Fight. [Edmund falls.]
    We waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
    Some certain of your brethren roar'd and ran
  Bene. May a man do it?
    Therein false struck, can take no greater wound,
    Will use you nobly and your followers.
    In giving him his right.
    Look, where he comes!
  GOWER. Nay, that's right; but why wear you your leek to-day? Saint
    That go or tarry.
    Thrown out his angle for my Proper life,
            You to his love must accord,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    their needles, but it will be thought we keep a bawdy-house
    but I say, Love me. By me,
    We have noted it. Call her before us, for
  BOYET. True; out indeed.
    Ye speak like honest men-pray God ye prove so!
  AJAX. I do hate a proud man as I do hate the engend'ring of toads.
    Write loyal cantons of contemned love
    Envy your great deservings and good name,
    a little amazedness, we were all commanded out of the chamber;
    To bring bad news. Give to a gracious message  
  BUCKINGHAM. True, madam, none at all. What can you this?
ADRIANA. Unfeeling fools can with such wrongs dispense.
    With those clear rays which she infus'd on me
    Lo, there thou stand'st, a breathing valiant man,  
    And dost thou now fall over to my foes?
    We must be married or we must live in bawdry.
  Nor it nor no remembrance what it was.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Then wish me better; I will give you leave.
  SALERIO. Here comes Lorenzo; more of this hereafter.
    O, be thou Dian, and let her be Kate;
    Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it.
    to-morrow, Sir Toby.
      Parle without, and answer within; then a flourish.
    Which serve not for his vantage, he shakes off;
  Queen. Ay me, what act,
    Either I must, or have mine honour soil'd
    Which did refuse three thousand ducats of me,
    That I may give the local wound a name,
    market days together.
    Betwixt the stout Lord Talbot and the French.
    That, through the sight I bear in things to come,
  KING. Hear me, dear lady: I have sworn an oath-
                  [GLOUCESTER'S men rush at the Tower gates, and
    Reliev'd him with such sanctity of love,
    Till you hear further from his Highness.

    Worthy Saint Michael, and the Golden Fleece,
  DUCHESS. What is the matter, my lord?
    And shall I couple hell? Hold, hold, my heart!
    So shall his father's wrongs be recompens'd.
    By the compulsion of their ordinance
    of the helmet of Alencon.
    Of dainty and such picking grievances;
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
                          Enter CHORUS
Sound trumpets. Enter the KING and State: the QUEEN, GLOUCESTER, YORK,
  DULL. And I say the polusion holds in the exchange; for the moon is
  Ah, do not tear away thyself from me;
ACT I. SCENE I.
    Within my tent his bones tonight shall lie,
  WILLIAMS. Under Captain Gower, my liege.
  VIOLA. No, not a grize; for 'tis a vulgar proof
    It seems to me most strange that men should fear
    Would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir
    For I must use thee.
    John, to stop Arthur's tide in the whole,
    For shallow draught and bulk unprizable,
    This is close dealing. Well, I will be there.    Exit HERALD
    Command my eldest son, nay, all my sons,
    Charming your blood with pleasing heaviness,

    It was the nightingale, and not the lark,
  POMPEY. Let me shake thy hand.
  ESCALUS. Of whence are you?
    If Brutus will vouchsafe that Antony
    At this hour reigning-there.  
  BERTRAM. Titled goddess;
    But since you make your pleasure of your pains,
    I must be held a rancorous enemy.
    Of the King's party
    I know his noble nature-not to let

  Par. O, I am slain! If thou be merciful,

    And in thy face strange motions have appear'd,  
    I'll have. But how, when Antony is gone,
    mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so
  FLUELLEN. Ay, so please your Majesty. The Duke of Exeter has very
    Pish! But, sir, be you ruled by me. I have brought you from
    Mingle their spurs together.
               Re-enter MARIA with MALVOLIO
    For you are spell-stopp'd.
    And sets a blister there; makes marriage vows
  MOONSHINE. This lanthorn doth the horned moon present-
    Thought I thy spirits were stronger than thy shames,
    That after seven years' siege yet Troy walls stand;
  A SPIRIT raised by him
    say. I would I were a weaver; I could sing psalms or anything. A
          Excursions. Enter French and English, fighting.
  CARDINAL. [Aside to GLOUCESTER] Are ye advis'd? The east side of
                          SCENE:
     And woes by wrong imaginations lose  
    For with his soul fled all my worldly solace,
    That very envy and the tongue of los  
    I meet the captains at the citadel.
  PROTEUS. No, Valentine.  
    and doughy youth of a nation in his colour. Your daughter-in-law
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Did you converse, sir, with this gentlewoman?
                   Of prison gates;
    Roger had issue, Edmund, Anne, and Eleanor.
    that the shoemaker should meddle with his yard and the tailor
    Of rich and exquisite form, their values great;
    us. Only, thus far you shall answer: if you make your voyage upon
    done about Turnbull Street; and every third word a lie, duer paid
COURTEZAN. Your man and you are marvellous merry, sir.
Enter HELENA and WIDOW
    But all hoods make not monks.
    To shame the zeal of my petition to the
  PEASEBLOSSOM. Peaseblossom.
    blood loves my flesh and blood; he that loves my flesh and blood
  ORLEANS. By the white hand of my lady, he's a gallant prince.
    I have forgot why I did call thee back.

    They are not such as you.
    So strongly guarded.  [To ARTHUR]  Cousin, look not sad;
   with a veil over her face; also YOUNG LUCIUS, and others  
    And gratulate his safe return to Rome,
    See here in bloody lines I have set down;

  Jul. Good father, I beseech you on my knees,
    Since Leonatus' false.
    To a mother's part belongs. He turns away.
    Comes to th' entertainer-
    Needs not the painted flourish of your praise.
  Than niggard truth would willingly impart:
    What says he of our marriage? What of that?
    That he may bless this bay with his tall ship,
    In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.
    You do yourselves but wrong to stir me up;
  EMILIA. Why, would not you?
    I had rather seal my lips than to my peril

    And prove it in thy feeling. Heaven mend all!
  Herein lives wisdom, beauty, and increase,
    Fam'd be thy tutor, and thy parts of nature
    Is far beyond a prince's delicates-
    I never spent an hour's talk withal.
    Before a willing bondman; then I know
  SERVANT. The English force, so please you.
    More pangs and fears than wars or women have;
    Feed, and regard him not-Are you a man?
Enter LAUNCELOT and JESSICA
    As he is striking, holds his infant up,
    My sovereign, with the loving citizens,
    And when he falls, he falls like Lucifer,
    Tickled with good success, disdains the shadow
    Untie the spell.  [Exit ARIEL]  How fares my gracious sir?
    Than in my greatness covet to be hid,
    And brokes with all that can in such a suit
    distinctly billeted, already in th' entertainment, and to be on
            Thy sting is not so sharp
  CHAMBERLAIN. You are young, Sir Harry Guildford.
     Fly, brother.- Torches, torches!- So farewell.
    And his love Thisby; very tragical mirth.'
    Before his legs be firm to bear his body!  
    When to her beauty I commend my vows,
  KING HENRY. O graceless men! they know not what they do.
    We'll none of that: that have I told my love,
    rebels need soldiers? Though it be a shame to be on any side but
    Rough quarries, rocks, and hills whose heads touch heaven,
    And fightest with the sword of Deborah.

    With words more sweet, and yet more dangerous,
    Hover through the fog and filthy air.                Exeunt.
  KING. Fair Princess, welcome to the court of Navarre.
    That might relieve you!
                       carrying torches.
     Doth from my senses take all feeling else
    Charles and the rest will take thee in their arms.
  PAULINA. Sir, my liege,
    When they pass back from the christening.
  Fal. Ay, Hal. 'Tis hot, 'tis hot. There's that will sack a city.
  KING HENRY. Then, Richard Earl of Cambridge, there is yours;
  ADRIAN, a Volscian

    Into our hands, and to confine yourself  
                                               [Knocking within]
    home with me.
    lie with his mother earth?
    Which is the merchant here, and which the Jew?
    speak unskilfully; or, if your knowledge be more, it is much
    We, at the height, are ready to decline.
    Examine every married lineament,
    was this present. Is't not well done?  
  Reg. That's most certain, and with you; next month with us.

                         Re-enter a SERVINGMAN
    I have a kind of self resides with you;
  SEBASTIAN. A spirit I am indeed,  
    I, not rememb'ring how I cried out then,
    look some linen for your head.
    But with all brief and plain conveniency
    Had she a tongue to speak, now would she say  
    chin. Indeed, she has a marvell's white hand, I must needs
    Under your hard construction must I sit,
  KING RICHARD. Send out a pursuivant-at-arms
    Thou art a most pernicious usurer;
    were, a dog at all things. If I had not had more wit than he, to
    But keep the hills and upper regions.
    Should be presented at our tent to us.

    Now will I to the Goths, and raise a pow'r
  ROBIN. Sir John Falstaff.
    obstruction in the blood, this cross-gartering; but what of that?
    As if that whatsoever god who leads him
    piece of flesh indeed! Learn of the wise, and perpend: civet is
    Shall win the wager which we will propose.

    coward: a man cannot steal, but it accuseth him; a man
    'Tis not your inky brows, your black silk hair,
               Unto the sweet bird's throat,
    You will have Gremio to keep you fair.  
    You precious winners all; your exultation
    And that a strange one too, which did awake me;
    To answer all the debt he owes to you
    Heaven hath through me restor'd the King to health.
  MESSENGER. Ay, dread Queen.
    Come. (They play.) Another hit. What say you?
  Have faculty by nature to subsist,
  CORIN. No more but that I know the more one sickens the worse at
  FORD. Marry, sir, we'll bring you to Windsor, to one Master
  Lear. I'll see that straight.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  Beat. Good morrow, sweet Hero.
    For the capacity of my ruder powers.
    Son of Polixenes, with his princess- she
  BRUTUS. Where's Publius?

    In deadly hate the one against the other;

1602
    Mine's not an idle cause. The Duke himself,
    Ay, but she's come to beg: Warwick, to give.
    I will perform it to enfranchise you.
    Are ceremonious courtiers.
    Nurture can never stick; on whom my pains,
    With barefaced power sweep him from my sight
  PROTEUS. All happiness bechance to thee in Milan!
    What is more cordial. Nay, I prithee take it;
  KING PHILIP. Excuse it is to beat usurping down.

    command the to open thy affair.
    Like a forlorn and desperate castaway,
    There shall no figure at such rate be set
    And tell him so; for I will else my heart,
  ARMADO. I love not to be cross'd.
    virtuous gentlewoman that ever nature had praise for creating. If
    Where I have seen corruption boil and bubble
    Villain, thou mightst have been an emperor;
            A merry heart goes all the day,
    As this their jangling I esteem a sport.
    Then hear me speak indifferently for all;
     That by thy comfortable beams I may
    To such whose place is under us, requires
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. And were you well advis'd?
    His popular 'shall,' against a graver bench  
    To stop their marches fore we are inflam'd.
    I'll set a bank of rue, sour herb of grace.
  FIRST CITIZEN. No, my lord, nor likely to be slain; for they have
    With such a kind of love as might become
    And change misdoubt to resolution;
                     123
    In honourable fashion.
    Dare no more stretch this finger of mine than he
    his lordship? Let me see them. What is thine?
    Was not a man my father? Hadst thou foxship

  PHRYNIA. Thy lips rot off!
  Friar. Hence from Verona art thou banished.
  MRS. PAGE. Well, I will muse no further. Master Fenton,
  Calls back the lovely April of her prime,
    His weary joints would gladly rise, I know;
    Shall lodge thee till thy wound be throughly heal'd;
  When he most burned in heart-wished luxury,
     Some five or six and thirty of his knights,
    I would wish me only he.
  KING RICHARD. Tut, tut, thou art all ice; thy kindness freezes.
    not- God be praised and blessed!- any hurt in the world, but
     Aloof from th' entire point. Will you have her?
    Which they distil now in the curbed time,
  DUCHESS. Ah, so much interest have I in thy sorrow
    For what I bid them do; for we bid this be done,
        and MUTIUS, two of TITUS' sons; and then two men
  SIMPLE. My master, sir, my Master Slender, sent to her,
    Is come to lay his weary bones among ye;
    You spurn'd me such a day; another time
            Thy tooth is not so keen,
    lov'd well when they were alive. Now part them again, lest they
    They would not pity me; yet plead I must,
  JULIA. O me unhappy!                                  [Swoons]
    I am far better born than is the King,
                                Exeunt NORTHUMBERLAND, CLIFFORD,
    But found no cure, the bath for my help lies,
    You are a young huntsman, Marcus; let alone;
    Upon thy tongue as in my thought. Now, good now,
            To taint his nobler heart and brain
     Who's there? the traitor?

    frailty, many deceiving promises of life; which I, by my good
    Fights dragon-like, and does achieve as soon
  Which like a jewel (hung in ghastly night)
  SECOND CITIZEN. YOU are never without your tricks; you may, you
  SECOND WITCH. Not so happy, yet much happier.
    Let us look in; the sight will much delight thee.
  CINNA. Be that the uttermost, and fail not then.
    Why, then Dame Margaret was ne'er thy joy.
    Have robb'd my strong-knit sinews of their strength,
    Make a short shrift; he longs to see your head.
    In weeping after this untimely bier.                  Exeunt
  SEBASTIAN. Ay, and a subtle; as he most learnedly
  Nurse. I saw the wound, I saw it with mine eyes,

  Pol. Come, sirs.
    Were purchas'd by the merit of the wearer!
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    In to my tent; the dew is raw and cold.  
  ROSALIND. Why, horns; which such as you are fain to be beholding to
Dunsinane. Within the castle.
  When you entombed in men's eyes shall lie,
  PANTHINO. Launce, away, away, aboard! Thy master is shipp'd, and
    A private whisper- no, not with such friends
    All hot and bleeding Will we offer them.
     If wolves had at thy gate howl'd that stern time,
    And interchangeably set down their hands
    Did see man die! scarce ever look'd on blood
    His health was never better worth than now.
SCENE II.
  GLOUCESTER. My staff! Here, noble Henry, is my staff.  
    But yet an union in partition,
  That I was sent for nothing but a rope!
    I rather will suspect the sun with cold

  MESSENGER. But yet, madam-
    Throw over her the veil of infamy;
    T' enjoy thy banish'd lord and this great land!         Exit
    What you would work me to, I have some aim.
    Who from the sacred ashes of her honour
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Go, go, poor soul; I envy not thy glory.


    Will rouse the proudest panther in the chase,
    lay my countenance to pawn. I have grated upon my good
    Though Cambridge, Scroop, and Grey, in their dear care
and forces
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  HELENA. The greatest Grace lending grace.
  FALSTAFF. My lord-  
  MESSENGER. Madam, I heard her speak: she is low-voic'd.
    Are you so hasty now? Well, all is one.
    This friendly treaty of our threat'ned town?
    So to the laws at large I write my name;        [Subscribes]
<Exit
  KATHERINA. Why then the beef, and let the mustard rest.
  Thy bosom is endeared with all hearts,
    To bait me with this foul derision?
    is the poor agent despis'd! traitors and bawds, how earnestly are
  POSTHUMUS. Thou shalt be then freer than a gaoler; no bolts for the
    To think it was so? O, give me thy hand,
    he will wear his cap with suspicion? Shall I never see a
              The wild waves whist,
    Inferior to none but to his Majesty;
  BOLINGBROKE. Patience, good lady; wizards know their times:
    him; if the devil have him not in fee-simple, with fine and
    I never robb'd the soldiers of their pay
    For, meeting her of late behind the wood,
    I would your spirit were easier for advice.
    You would have followed.
  COUNTESS. This is a riddling merchant for the nonce;
    'twere not as good a deed as drink to turn true man and to leave
    hope I shall not be flay'd out of it.
    And oftentimes, to win us to our harm,
    A matter from thee; and a birth, indeed,  
  CATESBY. It is a reeling world indeed, my lord;
  LEONTES. How could that be?
    That can thy light relume. When I have pluck'd the rose,
  Leon. Are they good?
    Much will be seen in that. In the meantime,
    Than is the coal of fire upon the ice
    I'll give no blemish to her honour, none.
  MESSENGER. The nature of bad news infects the teller.
    fay, I cannot reason.
    As willingly do I the same resign
  Clown. Why, there thou say'st! And the more pity that great folk

  If thou wilt leave me, do not leave me last,
    Now, out of this-
    Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
  PROVOST. Go to, sir; you weigh equally; a feather will turn the

ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. No, sir, not I; I came from Syracuse.
    is no fitter matter. How does your ladyship like it?
    Suddenly made him from my side to start
    He is the half part of a blessed man,
    Cousin of Somerset, join you with me,
  LEONTES. Let be, let be.

    so early. He cannot choose but take this service I have done

    Give us particulars of thy preservation;
    And be perform'd to-night. The solemn feast

    But to your protestation; let me hear
  ARIEL. Sir, in Argier.
    Thou knowest my daughter's of a pretty age.

    The weight we must convey with's will permit,
    When most struck home, being gentle wounded craves
    But by his mother was perforce withheld.
  MESSENGER. Good madam, patience.
  Cap. How, how, how, how, choplogic? What is this?
    Antony, Antony! Help, Charmian; help, Iras, help;
    My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
    eyes; and then they will endure handling, which before would not

    like flies at Bartholomew-tide, blind, though they have their
    You will say she did embrace me as a husband,
            [The DUKE OF YORK knocks at the door and crieth]
    And if he chance to speak, be ready straight,
    My emperor hath wrote; I must from hence,
SCENE 3.
    meeting may be wish'd, God prohibit it! Come, neighbour.
  CHARLES. No, I warrant your Grace, you shall not entreat him to a
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Peace, doting wizard, peace! I am not mad.
  Her. What are you?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Am I in earth, in heaven, or in hell?
    Therefore confess thee freely of thy sin,

    The shrinking slaves of winter.
  DEMETRIUS. Away! for thou hast stay'd us here too long.
    And smooth my way upon their headless necks;
    therefore he is a traitor.
    a wise burgher put in for them.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Large sums of gold and dowries with their wives;
    Cursed the heart that had the heart to do it!  
    That thou betray'dst Polixenes, 'twas nothing;
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Bound with an oath to yield to his conditions;

                                          [Lies down and sleeps]
    That great Northumberland, then false to him,
    Willing you overlook this pedigree.

    where he looks out of the window.
  KING RICHARD. Taste of it first as thou art wont to do.
    To take from thence all error with his might  
    Hath widowed and unchilded many a one,
    It weeps, it bleeds, and each new day a gash
    These signs forerun the death or fall of kings.
    You rise to play, and go to bed to work.
    Are arch'd so high that giants may jet through
              We the globe can compass soon,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM


    Though in Rome litter'd; not Romans, as they are not,
  Kent. Now by Apollo, King,
    Luc. Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;

    Th' expressure that it bears, green let it be,
  GLOUCESTER. And look to have it yielded with all kindness.
    him but a little, he will throw a figure in her face, and so
    Turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothing  
  TOUCHSTONE. To-morrow is the joyful day, Audre'y; to-morrow will we
    That it in golden letters should be set
SCENE V.
  And though they be outstripped by every pen,
    on the gown the while.                         Exit FALSTAFF
    Play the recanter, feeling in itself
    Nor woo in rhyme, like a blind harper's song.
    I'll win our ancient right in France again,

    time
  That thou hast her it is not all my grief,
     Bid me farewell, and let me hear thee going.  
A lonely part of the forest
    I am as well in my wits, fool, as thou art.
    In awe of such a thing as I myself.
    In time of action. I stand condemn'd for this;
    A kingdom for it was too small a bound;
  So thou be good, slander doth but approve,
    dinner.
  WOLSEY. Let me see, then.                    [Comes from his state]
    You know my mind. I'll fight no more 'gainst Troy.
  RODERIGO. What, ho, Brabantio! Signior Brabantio, ho!
    The which if you with patient ears attend,
    See when and where she died.
    Has forgot Britain.
      duty.
     I would you would make use of that good wisdom
           With true-love showers.
    Should be depos'd; and, being, that we detain

  CAMILLO. You pay a great deal too dear for what's given freely.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    To bring manslaughter into form and set
    Beat on a crown, the treasure of thy heart;
    And as he errs, doting on Hermia's eyes,
  KING RICHARD. Your cares set up do not pluck my cares down.
    While I shall have my life. Come, reverend fathers,
    Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses.
    As the most noble corse that ever herald
    more than all the lawyers in Bohemia can learnedly handle, though
    monster!
    not, Master Bardolph?
    Are in three heads: one power against the French,
    met; by your leave, good mistress.              [Kisses her]
    A sign of dignity, a breath, a bubble,
  SECOND LORD. On my life, my lord, a bubble.
  And I was ta'en for him, and he for me,
    thou hither?
  PHEBE. Good shepherd, tell this youth what 'tis to love.  
    Good word nor look. What, are my deeds forgot?
    for England. Of them I have much to tell thee. Farewell.
  CONSTANCE.  [Rising]  A wicked day, and not a holy day!
    And tent themselves with death. Of all the horses-
    You may reign in them now! O Imogen,
    or parley when I command them kill?
    Nothing of that shall from mine eyes appear.                 Exit

  TRANIO. If it be so, sir, that you are the man

  LUCETTA. All these are servants to deceitful men.
  MARCUS. O, thus I found her straying in the park,
    Die in the fall. But 'tis not so with me:

  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Sweet health and fair desires consort your
    And 'tis the very riches of thyself
    Upon the daring huntsman that has gall'd him-
    You must not take for fire. From this time
    And they expect it from me.
     [To Regan and Goneril] And your large speeches may your deeds  
  GLOUCESTER. Why, 'tis well known that whiles I was Protector
  Fal. I am accurs'd to rob in that thief's company. The rascal hath
    You should find better dealing. What's to do?
  CLEOPATRA. Well then, sustain me. O!
  BUCKINGHAM. Sir Thomas Lovell, I as free forgive you
    Not only with what my revenue yielded,
  Reg. Sister, you'll go with us?
    To fast, to study, and to see no woman-
  MESSENGER. Round even to faultiness.
    Sound, trumpets, alarum to the combatants!
  OLIVER. Many will swoon when they do look on blood.
    As honest as I am.
    What is his name.
  With wholesome syrups, drugs, and holy prayers,
  Benedick, a Young lord of Padua.
Enter DUKE and FRIAR THOMAS
  LORENZO. Lorenzo, and thy love.
    Cleopatra and himself in chairs of gold
    Sir, for your hurts, myself will be your surgeon.
  CLARENCE. Or else you would not have bestow'd the heir
    Heaven guard my mother's honour and my land!
    thought to think so?
    The which he could not levy; whereupon

    If thy revenges hunger for that food
    It shall become thee well to act my woes:
    For at their hands I have deserv'd no pity.
  IACHIMO. Exceeding pleasant; none a stranger there
    The King is almost wounded to the death;
    I got this ring; 'twas Leonatus' jewel,
    And the huge army of the world's desires-
  LORENZO. That is the voice,
    For speaking false in that. Thou art, alone-
    For I mine own gain'd knowledge should profane
    The Dauphin, with one Joan la Pucelle join'd,

  BRUTUS. Manifest treason!
  MALCOLM. This murtherous shaft that's shot
    Wear this for me; one out of suits with fortune,
  MONTGOMERY. Then fare you well, for I will hence again.
    you.
    And some that smile have in their hearts, I fear,
    good-year! do you think I would deny her? For God's sake, be
SCENE IV.
    You are a thousand times a properer man  
  ANNE. What is your will?

  CYMBELINE. Bow your knees.
                       Enter PAROLLES

    Into the hands of one that loves you not;
  PISANIO. 'Twill not be lost.
  Bene. Come, bid me do anything for thee.  
  SECOND CITIZEN. Room for Antony, most noble Antony.
    And having brought our treasure where we will,
    adventure the borrow of a week. When at Bohemia
    I have a little yet to say. Look there, my lords;
  SIR TOBY. To the gates of Tartar, thou most excellent devil of wit!
    Unto that element; but long it could not be
    Upon the valleys, whose low vassal seat
  PATROCLUS. Who's there? Thersites! Good Thersites, come in and
  ANNE. And by despairing shalt thou stand excused
    That the precipitation might down stretch
  YORK. A plague upon that villain Somerset
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
     Kill thy physician, and the fee bestow
  IAGO.             Not I, for this fair island.
    mutton; and she, a lac'd mutton, gave me, a lost mutton, nothing
    house, for here be many of her old customers. First, here's young
                                      Exeunt [Mother and Nurse.]
  ANTONY. We will yet do well.
  BOATSWAIN. If I did think, sir, I were well awake,
    Which towards you are most gentle- you shall find
    Dost thou love hawking? Thou hast hawks will soar
    These Kentish rebels would be soon appeas'd!
    Which finds it an enforced pilgrimage.

    But so it is- my haste doth call me hence,  
    [Pulling SIMPLE out]  Rugby, my rapier!
ACT III. SCENE I.
    And what poor duty cannot do, noble respect
    conscience, now?
    With downright payment show'd unto my father.  
  SILVIUS. It is to be all made of faith and service;
    Nature's, who perceiveth our natural wits too dull to reason of
    And will to France, hoping the consequence
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  REIGNIER. And so was mine, my lord.
              Enter Don Pedro and Claudio.
    For thee, against my self I'll vow debate,
    Come, go with me, peruse this as thou goest;
    drunkards.
    Thy nature did commence in sufferance; time
Windsor Park
    Or my true heart with treacherous revolt
    That done, our day of marriage shall be yours;
    You cannot guess wherefore the Welshman comes.
  IACHIMO. Not he; but yet heaven's bounty towards him might
    How I would think on him at certain hours
  Priest. Her obsequies have been as far enlarg'd
    Holds his soul light; he dies upon his motion.
  Prince. As the honey of Hybla, my old lad of the castle- and is not
    Than have seen this.
    My mate, that's never to be found again,
    I know not, except in that country he had the honour to be the
  For thy records, and what we see doth lie,
    And cried 'A crown, or else a glorious tomb!
    And ever welcome to us.
    But thou dost in thy passages of life
  MESSENGER. My lord, a prize, a prize! Here's the Lord Say, which

    walk my ambling gelding, than my wife with herself. Then
  AUTOLYCUS. Five justices' hands at it; and witnesses more than my
  KING JOHN. For our advantage; therefore hear us first.


    That I did suit me all points like a man?

     Instantly know, and of that letter too.
  'This said, his wat'ry eyes he did dismount,  
    Bark when their fellows do. By some of these
    must fast three days a week. For this damsel, I must keep her at
    Go after him; for he perhaps shall need

  ORLANDO. Wounded it is, but with the eyes of a lady.

  HORTENSIO. Signior Petruchio, fie! you are to blame.
  FIRST CITIZEN. Against him first; he's a very dog to the
  PROSPERO. The fringed curtains of thine eye advance,  
    While you have throats to answer. For myself,
    To mild entreaties, God in heaven forbid
  CLEOPATRA. So Fulvia told me.
    Green earthen pots, bladders, and musty seeds,
  PORTIA. He knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo,
  MASTER. Boatswain!
    against all proportion of subjection.
    The battle continues; the BRITONS fly; CYMBELINE is taken.
  
    Do this, and be a charitable murderer.
    As else I would be, were the day prolong'd.
    is an aunchient Lieutenant there at the bridge- I think in my
  THIRD SERVANT. A marv'llous poor one.
     Hark, do you hear the sea?
  CLARENCE. We left the Prince my brother here, my liege,
    Run away, I pray you!                                  Dies.
    Mark Antony is in your tents, my lord;
    When crouching marrow, in the bearer strong,
    Urge not my father's anger, Eglamour,
    Can truly say he gives, if he receives.
    any longer; you must be pinion'd.
  MONTANO. How? Is this true?
  DUCHESS. do not say 'stand up';
    I will fetch you light and paper and ink.
  But, soft, my door is lock'd; go bid them let us in.

    He'll make a proper man. The best thing in him
  Leon. I would fain know what you have to say.
    excels his brother for a coward; yet his brother is reputed one
     Some other time for that.- Beloved Regan,

    Can lack persuasion? Do not tempt my misery,
      For husband shalt thou-
    [To DUKE] You to your former honour I bequeath;
  CATESBY. 'Tis a vile thing to die, my gracious lord,
    Will give him cable.
  LORD. Sir, it was I.
    Let's see:
  MARGARELON. Turn, slave, and fight.
         Unpleasing to a married ear!
  EARL OF SURREY, his son
    How young Leander cross'd the Hellespont.
                Such a nut is Rosalinde.

  HELENA. I humbly thank you.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    When that her golden couplets are disclos'd,  
    Making and marring fortunes. You did know
    Even for your son's sake; and thereby for sealing
  LEONTES. Where the warlike Smalus,

     Were two full moons; he had a thousand noses,
    Malice ne'er meant. Our breach of duty this way
    When, being not at your lodging to be found,
  LAUNCE. No.
    If never, yet that Time himself doth say
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  YORK. Which now they hold by force, and not by right;
  And puts apparel on my tattered loving,
    Toby to look to me! This concurs directly with the letter: she
  QUEEN MARGARET. Good Clarence, do; sweet Clarence, do thou do it.
  Glou. He cannot be such a monster.
  STEPHANO, a drunken butler
    Till Norfolk be repeal'd-repeal'd he shall be
    Have seal'd thy full desire.
    And, as the president of my kingdom, will
    I'll never do you wrong for your own sake.  
    Much attribute he hath, and much the reason

  And heavy ignorance aloft to fly,
    excellent sweet lady, and (out of all suspicion) she is virtuous.  
  GAOLER. Unless a man would marry a gallows and beget young gibbets,
    and to forswear, according as marriage binds and blood breaks. A
    Our ears are cudgell'd; not a word of his
  EROS,                  "    "   "
  TROILUS. What, art thou angry, Pandarus? What, with me?
  Hot. Cousin, I think thou art enamoured
                    Enter a servant
  MALVOLIO. By my life, this is my lady's hand: these be her very
    More hateful than the foul expulsion is
  GAOLER. I may not, madam;
    He acts thy greatness in; and when he speaks
    She pray'd me to excuse her keeping close;
  ANNE. Vouchsafe, diffus'd infection of a man,

    come into no true taste again but by the displanting of Cassio.
    His passion is so ripe it needs must break.
                                   [Lays his hand on his heart.]
    Too soon ta'en prisoner; and that furious Scot,
  Prince. Or an old lion, or a lover's lute.
    not in words only, but in woes also: and yet there is a virtuous
  CORIOLANUS. A name unmusical to the Volscians' ears,
    and, to inure thyself to what thou art like to be, cast thy
    tall fellow of thy hands and that thou wilt not be drunk; but I
    And she, too desperate, would not go with me,
    Of my consent that she should be your wife.
    monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.

    soldat ici est dispose tout a cette heure de couper votre gorge.
    master cut out the gown; but I did not bid him cut it to pieces.
  CORIN. That is the way to make her scorn you still.
    Embowell'd will I see thee by-and-by;
    The first departing of the King for Ireland.
    Our letters are prepar'd.                   Exeunt MESSENGER  
  BOTTOM. Are we all met?
SCENE:  
    What dost thou then in prison?
  TITUS. Come, Marcus, come; kinsmen, this is the way.
    Cosmo, Lodowick, and Gratii, two hundred fifty each; mine own
         Patiently to bear my wroth.         Exit with his train
    memory, and yet but yaw neither in respect of his quick sail.
  HERMIONE. Come on then,
  Two ships from far making amain to us-
    My herald is return'd.
    Meet we the medicine of the sickly weal,
    My sleep my death?
    Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
  TALBOT. Prisoner! To whom?
    this word.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I am not in a sportive humour now;
  PHEBE. Ha! what say'st thou, Silvius?
    May well abate the over-merry spleen,
Angus, Lennox, Ross, and Soldiers, marching.
         Twice treble shame on Angelo,
    Without a burden. Time as long again
    subscrib'd for Cupid and challeng'd him at the burbolt. I pray
    Sir Thomas Gargrave and Sir William Glansdale,
    still thou liv'dst but as a breakfast to the wolf. If thou wert
    Now, for I know the Britaine Richmond aims
  TRINCULO. Monster, I do smell all horse-piss at which my
  APEMANTUS. Thy mother's of my generation; what's she, if I be a dog?
    And, as I hear, the great commanding Warwick
    My wife kill'd too?
    proportion, like the Prodigious Son, and am going with Sir
  PLAYER. Fear not, my lord; we can contain ourselves,
    But rather wishing a more strict restraint
    Advance our half-fac'd sun, striving to shine,
  JAQUES. [Aside] A material fool!
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

  HERMIA. Yea, and my father.
    friends.

    And see the cities and the towns defac'd
    I am your neighbour, and was suitor first.

    When creeping murmur and the poring dark
  YORK. Why, here's a girl! I think she knows not well
Verona. Friar Laurence's cell.
    He was but as the cuckoo is in June,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    What woman is, yea, what she cannot choose
    foot, le count.
    Here none but soldiers and Rome's servitors
    As who goes farthest.
  ARIEL. Thou liest.
  PAROLLES. There is none. Man, setting down before you, will
    house the hour she appointed me.

    Did hang a salt fish on his hook, which he
    We grant thou canst outscold us. Fare thee well;

  ARCHBISHOP. I take your princely word for these redresses.
  PUCK. Come hither; I am here.
    promise of satisfaction. I will presently to Saint Luke's; there,
                      Re-enter one with the heads
  THIRD CITIZEN. How, not your own desire?
  MACBETH. Till then, enough. Come, friends.             Exeunt.
    Be brisk awhile, and the longer liver take all.      Exeunt.
    'Twere deadly sickness or else present death.
  FOURTH CITIZEN. For your dwelling, briefly.

    That labour, sir. All's now done but the ceremony
    Death lies on her like an untimely frost  
    A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
    Genoa-
    Then am I king'd again; and by and by
  Wor. Ay, by my faith, that bears a frosty sound.
  2. Car. I have a gammon of bacon and two razes of ginger, to be
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
Enter the King, Prince of Wales, Lord John of Lancaster, Sir Walter Blunt,
  Who will believe my verse in time to come
  That in such haste I sent to seek his master!
    Give, me superfluous death.                  A noise within.
    terms; and in such wine and sugar of the best and the
   Which in th' eleventh year of the last king's reign
    If for the last, say 'Ay,' and to it, lords.
  MUTIUS. Brothers, help to convey her hence away,
    brain-pain had been cleft with a brown bill; and many a time,
    To raise a present sum; therefore go forth,

    Are richly come to harbour suddenly.
  MOTH. Most maculate thoughts, master, are mask'd under such
  Cap. Go, nurse, go with her. We'll to church to-morrow.
  KING HENRY. Nay, take me with thee, good sweet Exeter.
  For maiden-tongued he was, and thereof free;
    hates nothing more than he. Yet he's gentle; never school'd and

    Then homeward every man attach the hand
  Before herself, almost at fainting under
    without any malice, but to speak of him as my kinsman, he's a
    Half of the number that King Priam had,
    Sweet Beatrice, wouldst thou come when I call'd thee?  
    Cats that can judge as fitly of his worth
    struck him down, the disdain and shame whereof hath ever since
  ISABELLA. I will about it straight;
    While we bethink a means to break it off.
    shall make shift to go without him.
    Here, love, thou seest how diligent I am,
    Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua.
    Foul subornation is predominant,
  DESDEMONA.              Why do you speak so faintly?
    What sights of ugly death within my eyes!
  SECOND CITIZENS. And will deny him;
    So I might have your company in hell
    Hollow upon this plain, so many hollow factions.
    Did instigate the bedlam brainsick Duchess
  Dog. Marry, this it is, sir.
  The fairest votary took up that fire,
  LUCIUS. My lord?
    That Caesar will not grant. O, I grow faint.
    Or those eyes shut that make thee answer 'I.'
  MRS. PAGE. Hang the trifle, woman; take the honour. What
    Cry the man mercy, love him, take his offer;
SCENE III.

  WESTMORELAND. What, shall we suffer this? Let's pluck him down;
  BERTRAM. Go with me to my chamber and advise me.
  SICINIUS. Have with you.                                Exeunt
    you should find it in your chamber and not know who left it

    And not one vessel scape the dreadful touch
    Let's choose executors and talk of wills;
                           Enter VAUX
    The purest treasure mortal times afford
     Than twenty silly-ducking observants
  On purpose shut the doors against his way.
  Gent. One minded like the weather, most unquietly.
    This may plant courage in their quailing breasts,
    These tardy tricks of yours will, on my life,
    to do that for me which I am aweary of. He that ears my land
    Meantime let this defend my loyalty-
    You would not do me thus much injury.
    My nobles leave me; and my state is braved,
    And leave no memory of what it was!
    Have lost the wager. Boldness be my friend!

    No more shall cut his master. Therefore, friends,
    You, Capulet, shall go along with me;
    For half a hundred years. Summon the town.
    If thou dost love fair Hero, cherish it,
    Let me commend thee first to those that shall
    Looking the way her harmless young one went,
    daughters profit very greatly under you. You are a good member of  
  BRUTUS. Let's to the Capitol. Would half my wealth
    And make poor England weep in streams of blood!
    come with your appendix.
  Fal. Well, Hal, well; and in some sort it jumps with my humour as
  CINNA. I dreamt tonight that I did feast with Caesar,

    But ere sunset I'll make thee curse the deed.
    To come into his presence.
    The ample proposition that hope makes
  Queen. Sweets to the sweet! Farewell.
    And William de la Pole, first Duke of Suffolk.
  Who, disciplined, ay, dieted in grace,
    Never, O never, do his ghost the wrong
  Cap. O brother Montague, give me thy hand.
  SOMERSET. York set him on; York should have sent him aid.
    Acknowledge thee their patron, and come freely
    Did look no better to that weighty charge.
    Now, Cinna; now, Metellus; what, Trebonius,
  CLAUDIO. Death is a fearful thing.
     Is he not here?
  FIRST SENATOR. Noble Tribunes,
  HERMIA. If then true lovers have ever cross'd,  
    When he th' ambitious Norway combated.
    When thou mayest tell thy tale the nearest way?
    your foes, O gods, the senators of Athens, together with the
    I have possess'd you with, and think them strong;
    With blue of heaven's own tinct. But my design
    You serve Octavius Caesar, do you not?
  STEPHANO. This is some monster of the isle with four legs,
  Hero. And seem'd I ever otherwise to you?
    Carry him gently to my fairest chamber,
    Thou gav'st me poison. Dangerous fellow, hence!
  AGRIPPA,       "    "   "
    makes her story true even to the point of her death. Her death

    Of wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice six
  LADY MACBETH. But in them nature's copy's not eterne.
    Shall make me chide thee, if not hate thee. What!
  ARVIRAGUS. Nothing ill come near thee!
  PANDARUS. You are such a woman! A man knows not at what ward you
    Of my long weary life is come upon me.
  AUTOLYCUS. The fardel there? What's i' th' fardel? Wherefore that
  CAESAR. Go bid the priests do present sacrifice,
     That face of hers again. Therefore be gone
    Can a woman rail thus?
    Under the colour of his usual game,
                If a hart do lack a hind,
    Take him hence; to th' rack with him! We'll touze you
    I mean to tug it, and to cuff you soundly;
  BRUTUS. Peace, count the clock.
    The close earth wombs, or the profound seas hides
  BAPTISTA. Now, in good sadness, son Petruchio,
    But always hath been just and virtuous
    Which, by the heavens' assistance and your strength,  

  
    Nay, if I turn mine eyes upon myself,
    Let them pronounce the steep Tarpeian death,
    You understand me?
    Omission to do what is necessary
    To beg enfranchisement for Publius Cimber.
  VIOLA. And you, sir.
  AENEAS. If not Achilles, sir,  
    So that, as clear as is the summer's sun,

  KING. Ay, that there is. Our court, you know, is haunted
SCENE V.
    And here will rest me. [Lies down] Come, thou gentle day.
    Hath raised me from my bed, nor doth the general care
    Bears no impression of the thing it was.
    Then talk no more of flight, it is no boot;

  KING HENRY. I am content, so the maiden cities you talk of may wait
    And finding him, the searchers of the town,
    Duke. I, having been acquainted with the smell before, knew it
    It doth appear you are a worthy judge;
    Were not revenge sufficient for me;
  MACBETH. I am settled and bend up
    Pluck'd four away. [To BOLINGBROKE] Six frozen winters spent,
  CHARLES. Presently we'll try. Come, let's away about it.
    But he must die to-morrow?
     Which- for they yet glance by and scarcely bruise-

    And for Mark Antony, think not of him,
  EXTON. And, speaking it, he wishtly look'd on me,
    I am your husband if you like of me.
Before the castle.
    Pass away frowning.
  For shame deny that thou bear'st love to any
    You shall have letters from me to my son
    That seest a game play'd home, the rich stake drawn,  
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Dead, for my life!
  HELENA. Do not say so, Lysander; say not so.
    Well may I get aboard! This is the chase;
    And go, Sir Paris. Every one prepare
  Ham. I do not think so. Since he went into France I have been in
    For thee I'll lock up all the gates of love,
    You are transported by calamity
    You are so strongly in my purpose bred,
    And I will put that business in your bosoms
  PISANIO. Madam, you're best consider.
    First note that he is near you in descent,
    master; be not afraid.
    This royal throne of kings, this scept'red isle,
  MRS. FORD. Why, alas, what's the matter?

    Wherein thou liest in reputation sick;
    And in the greatness of my word, you die.
                      Enter Nurse [and Peter].
  TRANIO. Nay, then 'tis time to stir him from his trance.  
  CLOWN. Foh! prithee stand away. A paper from Fortune's close-stool
    Thou art not by mine eye, Lysander, found;
    from my two mistresses. What a beast am I to slack it!
    man; one that knew courtship too well, for there he fell in love.
    My playfellow, your hand, this kingly seal
    misdemeanours, you are welcome to the house; if not, and it would
    For herein Fortune shows herself more kind
                                 [Alarum. Here another skirmish]
    To bandy word for word and frown for frown;
    drive some of them to a non-come. Only get the learned writer to
    Than hate for Silvia, that is gone for love.            Exit
  MRS. FORD. Faith, thou hast some crotchets in thy head now.
    And let me have them very well perfum'd;
    And yours it is against.
  FRENCH KING. Therefore, Lord Constable, haste on Montjoy,
    Our part therein we banish with yourselves,
    wit, and put up my iron dagger. Answer me like men.

    their fingers.
    Ill-spirited Worcester! did not we send grace,
    Join'd in commission with him, but either
  BARNARDINE. I swear I will not die to-day for any man's persuasion.
SCENE II.
  'His browny locks did hang in crooked curls;
    I look'd her in the face, and saw her led
  MALCOLM. Let every soldier hew him down a bough,
    And women too, but innocent and pure;
  Proving his beauty by succession thine.
    committing adultery with Polixenes, King of Bohemia; and
Officers attending.
                                                         [Reads]
    a better wench in England. Go, wash thy face, and draw the
       JUPITER descends-in thunder and lightning, sitting
    For thou shalt find she will outstrip all praise,

    belie her. Lie with her! 'Zounds, that's fulsome! Handkerchief-
    Deliver'd you a paper that I should not.
    very words. What doth he think of us?
    Thrice is he arm'd that hath his quarrel just;
    Have bared my bosom to the thunderstone;
    that you could!
    Do as the carrion does, not as the flow'r,

    Therefore no marvel though Demetrius
    Our scions, put in wild and savage stock,
    And mock us with our bareness.
    head to him; but I'll make thee eat iron like an ostrich and
    Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse.

    As shall with either part's agreement stand?  
    Their several counsels they unbosom shall
  Lear. A pestilent gall to me!
    As if my brother liv'd. I partly think
  ANTONY. That's all I seek;
  MRS. PAGE. Come, trouble not yourself. Good Master
    Why, so, being gone,
  GARTER. Heaven, from thy endless goodness, send prosperous
  PROVOST. A bawd of eleven years' continuance, may it please your
    I seem'd his follower, not partner; and
    consulships?

  CRESSIDA. What was his answer?
    Study his bias leaves, and makes his book thine eyes,
    To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd
    Along the field I will the Troyan trail.                   Exeunt
    York cannot speak unless he wear a crown.
  COSTARD. If it were, I deny her virginity; I was taken with a maid.  

    If this fond Love were not a blinded god?  
  BAPTISTA. Is he come?
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Which fear, not reverence, makes thee to except.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. You come to take your stand here, and
    I'll teach them to prevent wild Alcibiades' wrath.
    They are already, or quickly will be landed.
  FALSTAFF. Dost thou hear? It is mine ancient.

  But not to tell of good, or evil luck,
    I am either maid, or else this old man's wife.
  PAROLLES. A good knave, i' faith, and well fed.
  ANTONIO. True; save means to live.
    But sup them well, and look unto them all;
                               Enter Romeo.
  LAWYER.  [To Somerset]  Unless my study and my books be
  GLOUCESTER. Presumptuous priest, this place commands my
    He cried upon it at the merest loss,
  MOTH. Hail!
    For such as we are made of, such we be.
  BUSHY. That's as York thrives to beat back Bolingbroke.
    See thou deliver it to my lord and father.
    As many farewells as be stars in heaven,
    Pie-corner- saving your manhoods- to buy a saddle; and he is
  SLENDER. I will do a greater thing than that upon your request,
    To put an antic disposition on),  
  SIR TOBY. I mean, to go, sir, to enter.
  FIRST SENATOR. The senators of Athens greet thee, Timon.
    Of your entire affection to Bianca;
     What need you five-and-twenty, ten, or five,
    and all together.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. You do not meet a man but frowns; our bloods
    Though 'tis a saying, sir, not due to me.
  PRINCE. And how doth thy master, Bardolph?
                               [She takes the staff in her mouth
    Together working with thy jealousies,
    And keep our faiths firm and inviolable.
    To woo your lady. [Aside] Yet, a barful strife!
    By our permission, is allow'd to make.
  VIRGILIA. His bloody brow? O Jupiter, no blood!  
  With sun and moon, with earth and sea's rich gems:
  Lear. Follow me; thou shalt serve me. If I like thee no worse after
    Here comes his mother.
                                           Goes into the pulpit.
    So am I driven by breath of her renown
  TIMON. Think not on't, sir.

    Of this most dreadful preparation,
    And guardian of their bones.
Enter GLOUCESTER, BEDFORD, EXETER, ERPINGHAM, with all his host;
           Enter Falstaff, [Gadshill, Bardolph, and Peto;
    Speak to her, Hamlet.
  ORLANDO. Nor I.                                         Exeunt
    While he himself keeps in the cold field?
Enter the two Tribunes, SICINIUS and BRUTUS with the AEDILE
    Enter TRANIO, bravely apparelled as LUCENTIO, and BIONDELLO
    Are they not now upon the western shore,
    As who should say 'Old lad, I am thine own.'
    Power as he was a councillor to try him,
      "Murther!"
    of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls
  And dialogued for him what he would say,
    To be a widow-maker! O, and there
    desire in a summer's day. Here is his Majesty.
    And be assur'd you'll find a difference,
    But we our kingdom's safety must so tender,
                     16  
  ROSALIND. O, I know where you are. Nay, 'tis true. There was never
  But as the marigold at the sun's eye,
  AGRIPPA. Let us go.
    But I can tell that in each grace of these
  Leon. You may light on a husband that hath no beard.
    Either death or you I'll find immediately.              Exit
    Make your best use of this; I have perform'd
    Hath fear'd the valiant; by my love, I swear
    Will render you no remedy, this ring
    We do request your kindest ears; and, after,  
     this letter. The army of France is landed.- Seek out the traitor

    And then my soul shall wait on thee to heaven,
    But thou shalt wear it as a herald's coat
    The glory of our Troy doth this day lie
    Oppress'd with two weak evils, age and hunger,
    Be opposite all planets of good luck
Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE

    The King, on his own royal disposition
    Only give order for my funeral.  

    breeding, admirable discourse, of great admittance, authentic in
    Or have acquaintance with mine own desires;
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  FALSTAFF. The young Prince hath misled me. I am the fellow with the
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. I never did her any to my knowledge.
    Thou art no father nor no friend of mine.

    Lest, bleeding, you do paint the white rose red,
  DUKE. It is a rupture that you may easily heal; and the cure of it
    That I must be their scourge and minister.
    I'll willingly to him; to gain his colour
  Rom. As if that name,

  ALEXAS. You think none but your sheets are privy to your wishes.
  DESDEMONA.                      Indeed! is't true?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains! that we should,

  FALSTAFF. Men of all sorts take a pride to gird at me. The brain of
    Where honeysuckles, ripened by the sun,
     And told me I had turn'd the wrong side out.

    a Scotch jig--and full as fantastical; the wedding, mannerly
  All these I better in one general best.
    The cur is excellent at faults.
    That he hath left part of his grief with me
     And self-reproving. Bring his constant pleasure.
  CYMBELINE. Now say, what would Augustus Caesar with us?
  Bene. Not now.
  KING HENRY. And I, with grief and sorrow, to the court.
    Say what thou canst, I'll go along with thee.
  NATHANIEL. Peter, didst ever see the like?
  JAQUES. There is, sure, another flood toward, and these couples are
    comes a-wooing- 'Priami' is my man Tranio- 'regia' bearing my
    Lo thus by day my limbs, by night my mind,
  CASSIUS. O Brutus!
  FIRST CAPTAIN. Great Jupiter be prais'd! Lucius is taken.
  THESEUS. My hounds are bred out of the Spartan kind,
    Our battle is more full of names than yours,
    Gerard de Narbon was my father,
    Prove false!                                            Exit
    I would remove these tedious stumbling-blocks
  CARDINAL. Lord Regent, I do greet your Excellence
    The Dauphin hath prevail'd beyond the seas,
  With eager compounds we our palate urge,
    his tongue speaks.
    Never bestrid a horse, save one that had
    For me, by this pale queen of night I swear,
    No more such wives; therefore, no wife. One worse,
    To this same blessed Milford. And by th' way
    And by a gem of women, to be abus'd
    Now will I look to his remuneration. Remuneration! O, that's the
     Look there, look there!                            He dies.  
    No more; and by a sleep to say we end
    beggar's. The catastrophe is a nuptial; on whose side?- the
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  DOLL. A pox damn you, you muddy rascal! Is that all the comfort you
  SECOND CONSPIRATOR. Most noble sir,
    Receive in either by this dear encounter.

  LADY MACBETH. A kind good night to all!
    In lieu whereof, I pray you, bear me hence
    and that with his own hand he slew the Duke's brother.  [Tucket]
    Let us entreat, by honour of his name
  Nay, he's a thief too: have you not heard men say
    Yea, even the slightest worship of his time,
    Their money out of hope they may believe
  LAVINIA, daughter to Titus Andronicus
                                 [HERALD presents another paper]
    comparative, rascalliest, sweet young prince. But, Hal, I prithee
ACT IV. SCENE I.
    mouth; this will shake your shaking, I can tell you, and
    Such barren pleasures, rude society,
                         Exeunt [all but Benedick and Beatrice].
    That high All-Seer which I dallied with
     Will you lie down and rest upon the cushions?
    troth.
    And for his death no wind

    What willingly he did confound he wail'd,
    Why, then the world and all that's in't is nothing;
  AJAX. No, not a whit.
    You have my father's house- but what? We are friends.
    He lives in fame that died in virtue's cause.
The Grecian camp. Before the tent of ACHILLES
    And in their ears tell them my dreadful name-
    Some aqua-vitae, ho! My lord! my lady!  
    For the most gentle Claudio.
    respects, I grant, I cannot go- I cannot tell. Virtue is of so
    Holds honour far more precious dear than life.
    Some never-heard-of torturing pain for them.
    And wilt thou still be hammering treachery
    You should enjoy were you this country's king,


  FIRST LORD. Let it be forbid, sir! So should I be a great deal
    a handkerchief and rings of his that Paulina knows.
    A woman, I dare say without vain-glory,
    So good as you have done.
    That majesty, to keep decorum, must
    And the compact is firm and true in me.
    Or else I often had been miserable.
    Your partner in the cause 'gainst which he fought,
    And I did yield to him. But the next morn betimes,
  PATROCLUS. Your answer, sir.
    For pity is the virtue of the law,
    destroyer of men.
    With more of thine. This love that thou hast shown
    And all for use of that which is mine own.
  CORIOLANUS. Nay, I prithee, woman-
    Or felt the flatteries that grow upon it!
    He bears too great a mind. But this same day
    Which for things true weeps things imaginary.
  RODERIGO. Beat me!  
    Like a great sea-mark, standing every flaw,
    Is it not more than shame to shame it so?
    But Pandarus-O gods, how do you plague me!
    Of her o'er-eaten faith, are bound to Diomed.
  CATESBY.  [Aside to another]  The King is angry; see, he
  Fal. What, is the King encamp'd?
    But five and twenty. O God, thy arm was here!
    Where Hotspur's father, old Northumberland,
    Know you what Caesar means to do with me?
    From change of fortune. Why this spade, this place?
  FIRST SENATOR. If after two days' shine Athens contain thee,
    wailing, my sister crying, our maid howling, our cat wringing her
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, the King hath sever'd you. I hear you are
    Heaven ever laid up to make parents happy,
    That God, the law, my honour, and her love
    For by my mother I derived am
    But if't be he I mean, he's very wild
    And by how much she strives to do him good,
  TITUS. O, here's Servilius; now we shall know some answer.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. She that would be your wife now ran from you.
    Which to be spoke would torture thee.

  SALISBURY. Pardon me, madam,
  ELINOR. Thou monstrous slanderer of heaven and earth!
    Never yet did base dishonour blur our name
  King. Bring him before us.
ACT IV. SCENE I.
  THE DUKE OF VENICE
    are, being a man. Truly the lady fathers herself. Be happy, lady;
A room in the castle.
    What! to you,
    Fell over the threshold and broke my shin.
    of fools!
    His jarring concord, and his discord dulcet,
  HASTINGS. What then?
  WARWICK. State holy or unhallow'd, what of that?
  ANGELO. Always obedient to your Grace's will,
    Signior Baptista, of whom I hear so well.
    price. Is't a verdict?
  FRANCIS. Why, then, cover and set them down; and see if thou canst

    You shall look fairer ere I give or hazard.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  TREBONIUS. Fled to his house amazed.
    We'll measure them a measure, and be gone.
     More composition and fierce quality
    That speak against us! A charge we bear i' th' war,
                When thou wak'st, if she be by,
    Of monstrous friends; nor has he with him to
    And know some nurture. But forbear, I say;
  Beat. Will you not eat your word?
    And rear'd aloft the bloody battle-axe,
  SLY. Am I a lord and have I such a lady?
          With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,  
  Bear me forthwith unto his creditor,
    As bondage e'er of freedom. Here's my hand.
  How far I toil, still farther off from thee.  
  MARIA. La you, an you speak ill of the devil, how he takes it at
  DUKE. Be it as you shall privately determine,
ADRIANA. Peace, fool! thy master and his man are here,
    Till we with trophies do adorn thy tomb.
  A nut, a cherry-stone;
  Bard. Choler, my lord, if rightly taken.
    chronicles: we came in with Richard Conqueror. Therefore, paucas
    Alexander.
  SECOND CITIZEN. That matter is answered directly.
    Gifts of rich value. Yet I have not seen
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  TOUCHSTONE. Trip, Audrey, trip, Audrey. I attend, I attend.
    Of whose true-fix'd and resting quality
  JEWELLER. What, my lord! Dispraise?
    Thou thought'st to help me; and such thanks I give
    How true a gentleman you send relief,
  Prince. I do.
    But that 'tis shown ignobly and in treason.
                            Enter All
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Up in the air, crown'd with the golden sun-
    Most fit for business. Go make thee ready;
    Heir to the crown?
    His cloister'd flight, ere to black Hecate's summons
    That for thine own gain shouldst defend mine honour?
    Or wilt thou ride? Thy horses shall be trapp'd,
    I will not look upon your master's lines.
    I hope it is some pardon or reprieve
Before the gates of Harfleur

    And lend no ear unto my purposes.
    our better mirth.
    'school', 'fool'--a babbling rhyme: very ominous endings! No, I
    Standing your friendly lord.
    gold of him. He likewise enrich'd poor straggling soldiers with
    O, he has given example for our flight

     And fortune led you well. You have the captives
  HUBERT. O, my sweet sir, news fitting to the night,
    Here on this grass-plot, in this very place,
    And call him to long peace.
    Let me intreat you speak the former language.
    That carries anger as the flint bears fire,
    Write from it if you can, in hand or phrase;
    But even this night, whose black contagious breath

    Unmix'd with baser matter. Yes, by heaven!
    Albeit considerations infinite
    For common justice, y'are as pregnant in
  Beat. With a good leg and a good foot, uncle, and money enough in
    Here's his lordship now.
    All three of you, to be thus much o'ershot?
    Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold;
    If therefore you dare trust my honesty,
  SLY. Marry, I will; let them play it. Is not a comonty a
    And send the hearers weeping to their beds;
    This evening on the east side of the grove.
    A sorry breakfast for my Lord Protector.
    mouse, a cat, to scratch a man to death! a braggart, a rogue, a
    Your single bond, and, in a merry sport,
    Spring crestless yeomen from so deep a root?
    That thou, residing here, goes yet with me,
    good comfort. She calls you, coz; I'll leave you.
    Well with this lord; there was not full a month
    Sicilia, thou art here accused and arraigned of high treason, in  
  CAPTAIN. That were hard to compass,
    He then unto the ladder turns his back,
             Puts the wretch that lies in woe
    Must fetch him in he papers.
    The very lifeblood of our enterprise.
    For things are often spoke and seldom meant;
  Rom. If my heart's dear love-
    I swear to thee, even by thine own fair eyes,
    Or Charles or something weaker masters thee.
    That is renown'd for faith? Be fickle, Fortune,
    With very ignorance; we have kiss'd away  
    Too proud to be so valiant.
    And prompt me, plain and holy innocence!
SCENE III.
                                       Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
London. The DUKE OF LANCASTER'S palace
    Drive him to Rome. 'Tis time we twain
THE END
    'True is it, my incorporate friends,' quoth he
  COMINIUS. Go we to our tent.
ACT IV. SCENE I.

  EVANS. No, it is 'lapis'; I pray you remember in your prain.
    Had I the pow'r that some say Dian had,

    Being the time the potion's force should cease.
    Smother her spirits up.
    That it may stand till the perpetual doom

  Ham. Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseas'd. But, sir, such
                          Enter BOYET
    He could not sit his mule.
  Therefore make present satisfaction,
    It stands in like request?
    They lose it that do buy it with much care.

    Still growing in a majesty and pomp, the which
  Gent. Alack, poor gentleman!
                      Enter CLEOPATRA
    I care not for thy sword; I'll make thee known,
  CLOWN. Out upon him! prig, for my life, prig! He haunts wakes,  
    As soul and body's severing.
    The patroness of heavenly harmony.
    emboss'd him. You shall see his fall to-night; for indeed he is
    Within the scorched veins of one new-burn'd.
    To throw down Hector than Polyxena.
    death?                                      [He strikes him]
    the city?

    A solemn combination shall be made
  MRS. FORD. Heaven forgive our sins!

  Corn. To this chair bind him. Villain, thou shalt find-
  FALSTAFF. O, sir!
  OTHELLO. Nor send you out o' the way?
     That hast within thee undivulged crimes
  Bene. I do love nothing in the world so well as you. Is not that  
    The deeds of justest men.

    Which can make gods forsworn? I melt, and am not
    I lay upon thy lips.
  PETRUCHIO. What is his name?
    In my voluptuousness. Your wives, your daughters,
    Look out o' th' other side your monument;
  Claud. You speak this to fetch me in, my lord.

    Is it Sir Robert's son that you seek so?
  JESSICA. In such a night
  GLOUCESTER. Mass, thou lov'dst plums well, that wouldst venture so.
  KING HENRY. Welcome, Lord Somerset. What news from France?
    this place of the forest, and to couple us.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    have the booty, if you and I do not rob them, cut this head off
    Unless perchance you come to me again
    And, after, meet you sooner than you would.           Exeunt
  PROTEUS. No, no; you shall have it for bearing the letter.
    faith.
    Glendower? Is there not, besides, the Douglas? Have I not all
    As you are toss'd with. In faith,
    Ay, all of you have laid your heads together-
    The least whereof would quell a lover's hope,
    That thus I have resign'd to you my charge.
  Laer. O, treble woe

  AARON. It shall not die.
    Whom Troy hath still denied; but this Antenor,
  PANDARUS. Will this gear ne'er be mended?
    rhyme, and to be melancholy; and here is part of my rhyme, and
    The presence of a king engenders love
  FIRST LORD. Holy seems the quarrel
  Ham. I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not
    Had I been judge, thou shouldst have had ten more,
    But with the motion of all elements
     Poor pelting villages, sheepcotes, and mills,
  BIANCA. Farewell, sweet masters, both; I must be gone.
    "Liberty, freedom, and enfranchisement!"
    Of this great sport together, as you guess?  
  Rom. Come hither, man. I see that thou art poor.
    To feed again, though full. You do remember
  PARIS. It is great morning; and the hour prefix'd
    sir, it cannot come to so much.
    stand by awhile.
    With all the spots o' th' world tax'd and debauch'd,
    From Ravenspurgh to Cotswold will be found
    And takes away the stomach- such are the rich
  PETRUCHIO. Well, forward, forward! thus the bowl should run,
    Weeping again the King my father's wreck,
  John. And when I have heard it, what blessings brings it?
    Whose better issue in the war from Italy
                   Re-enter DIOMEDES
           Of his bones are coral made;

    Grown to this faction in the Temple Garden,
by William Shakespeare
    may stroke him as gently as a puppy greyhound. He'll not swagger
    Low-crooked court'sies, and base spaniel-fawning.
           Enter LOVEL and RATCLIFF, with HASTINGS' head
    If Cassius might have ruled.  
    On special dignities, which vacant lie
    I'll speak of her no more, nor of your children;
  WARWICK. Alas, I am not coop'd here for defence!
    and in her eyes. There shall she see my valour, which will then
    wield?                                         Exit BARDOLPH
  Glend. The heavens were all on fire, the earth did tremble.

    'Twere better not assay'd. Therefore this project
    swaggering now. Shut the door, I pray you.
  ARVIRAGUS. What should we speak of
    A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
    Henceforth be Earls, the first that ever Scotland
    bragging slave! The rogue fled from me like quick-silver.
    Submitting me unto the perilous night,
    Then fly. What, from myself? Great reason why-
    Above this world; adding thereto, moreover,
    Hebrew, a Jew, and not worth the name of a Christian.
    Their very noses had been counsellors
    And thanks, and ever thanks; and oft good turns
  Why so large cost having so short a lease,

     On her ingrateful top! Strike her young bones,
  Heard where his plants in others' orchards grew;
    In your behalf, to meet you on the way.
    yesterday mountain-squire; but I will make you to-day a squire of
    Have I not reason to look pale and dead?
    To render them redoubted. Look on beauty  
  ROSALIND. With a priest that lacks Latin and a rich man that hath

      daughter,
  CADE. Nay, answer if you can; the Frenchmen are our enemies. Go to,
  NORFOLK. Faith, and so it did.
    villain with the sleeve back to the dissembling luxurious drab of
  Clown. You lie out on't, sir, and therefore 'tis not yours.
    I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench,
    Who though they are of monstrous shape yet, note,
    Sound them, it doth become the mouth as well;
    Your oath once broke, you force not to forswear.

    But mount you presently, and meet with me
  The rich-proud cost of outworn buried age,

    amaz'd, he will every way be mock'd.
  POLIXENES. She embraces him.
    York and young Rutland could not satisfy.
    But screw your courage to the sticking-place
    Hath for your love as great a pang of heart
    Peering in maps for ports, and piers, and roads;
    Boy! Lucius! Varro! Claudio! Sirs, awake!
    And is not like the sire. Honours thrive
    Parted with sugar breath; so sweet a bar
    As you fly from your oft subdued slaves.
            Re-enter MISTRESS FORD, with two SERVANTS
  GARDINER. Which reformation must be sudden too,  
    pound of prunes, and as many of raisins o' th' sun.
  GREMIO. Let me entreat you.
    Brutus, my country's friend; know me for Brutus!       Exit.
    France, I am burn'd up with inflaming wrath,
  MIRANDA. O, good sir, I do!
  That every word doth almost tell my name,
    May be it is the period of your duty.
    set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember one said
    Spurn at his edict and fulfil a man's?
  FIRST SENATOR. Bring us to his cave.
    I am more an antique Roman than a Dane.
    Cannot be truly follow'd. You shall mark
  As I by yours, y'have passed a hell of time,
                        Exeunt all but WINCHESTER and the LEGATE
    you go against the hair of your professions. Is it not true,
    In an ungracious mouth is but profane.
    Yet in this one thing let me blame your Grace,
  CAESAR. Gallus, go you along.                      Exit GALLUS
  PANDARUS. You spy! What do you spy?-Come, give me an instrument.

    A hundred thousand crowns; and not demands,
    For I am sure, when he shall see our army,
    precisely, can you carry your good will to the maid?
    The cover, of the wings of grasshoppers;
    Go, base intruder, over-weening slave,
    The multitudinous seas incarnadine,
    If they set down before's, for the remove
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Thrust from the company of awful men;
<Exit
  KING RICHARD. Because that like a Jack thou keep'st the
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    But dare maintain the party of the truth,
  CLEOPATRA. I dare not, dear.
    Come, madam, and come, Richard, we must speed
    That you will feed on; but what is, come see,

    Commit myself, my person, and the cause.
    Did urge me in his act. I did inquire it,
  Queen. Alack,
  HOLOFERNES. Video, et gaudeo.
    So great a day as this is cheaply bought.
    Then I'll commend her volubility,  
  PROSPERO. O, a cherubin
    And breed a kind of question in our cause.
    I say thou hast belied mine innocent child;
  COUNTESS. Nay, a mother.

    might make my sister wanton. But indeed words are very rascals
  To warrant thee, as I am 'rested for.
The TIMON's cave, and a rude tomb seen
    Thou seest the heavens, as troubled with man's act,
    That presses them and learns them first to bear,
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. Nothing but bonfires. The oracle is fulfill'd:
    meat, do relish the petition well that prays for peace.
  TIMON. Go you, sir, to the senators,
  LUCIO. Thou conclud'st like the sanctimonious pirate that went to
    And fright our native peace with self-borne arms.
    will eat no supper that night.
  CYMBELINE. Son, let your mother end.
    With thoughts so qualified as your charities
    With an unquiet soul. You shall have gold
                                       [He cuts off TITUS' hand]
    A token from her daughter, my fair love,
    I will be master of what is mine own-
    he hath learnt so much fence already.
    Presumptuous dame, ill-nurtur'd Eleanor!

    From me he got it. If thy greatness will  
    Be sad, as we would make ye. Think ye see
    Which was thrust forth of Milan; who most strangely
  PROTEUS. Except my mistress.
    You need it not.
    Repair'd with double riches of content.
    I cheer'd them up with justice of our cause,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    My uncle practises more harm to me;
A highway between Rome and Antium
    We must not rend our subjects from our laws,
    The veins unfill'd, our blood is cold, and then
    When such profound respects do pull you on.
  Ben. See, where he comes. So please you step aside,
    The fewer men, the greater share of honour.
  PROSPERO. At least two glasses. The time 'twixt six and now
    To answer such a question. Stand again.
    And then she's yours.
    What is your pleasure with me?
    But why thy odour matcheth not thy show,
    There dancing up to th' chins, that the foul lake
    A goodly person. He hath lost his fellows,
  Lord of my love, to whom in vassalage
    interim be but a se'nnight, Time's pace is so hard that it seems  
    And the great Hector's sword had lack'd a master,
    Good sir, go with us.

    The strong-ribb'd bark through liquid mountains cut,
    have suffer'd all this. My suit, then, is desperate;

    Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast;
    A lip of much contempt, speeds from me;
  CLOWN. No, indeed, sir; the Lady Olivia has no folly; she will keep

    If that be true, I shall see my boy again;
    About his neck, Bohemia; who- if I
  PEDANT. Away, away, mad ass! His name is Lucentio; and he is mine
    very possible he'll scorn it; for the man (as you know all) hath
    Make her thanks bless thee. O thou day o' th' world,
  Be not thy tongue thy own shame's orator;
    And with thy bloody and invisible hand
    Proteus, the good conceit I hold of thee-
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    And here in sight of Rome, to Saturnine,
    A nobler man, a braver warrior,
    or bad but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison.
    To save the Romans, thereby to destroy
                              Exeunt BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and ARMY
     Before me at this instant.
  POMPEY. Nine, sir; Overdone by the last.
  MIRANDA. Miranda-O my father,
    Come.
    followers, whose condemnation is pronounc'd. So far my king and
  REIGNIER, DUKE OF ANJOU, and titular King of Naples
                          whole ARMY
    Grop'd I to find out them; had my desire,
    good name. To be a well-favoured man is the gift of fortune, but
  To make a loathsome abject scorn of me;
    Of any true decision. Nature craves
A chase in the north of England
    He be convented. He's a rank weed, Sir Thomas,
                                                  [Hero swoons.]
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
1601
  GONZALO. Therefore, my lord-
    I thank my memory I yet remember
    could get her good will.
    roared, and the bear mock'd him, both roaring louder than the sea
    magnanimous mouse. Prick the woman's tailor- well, Master
  PROSPERO. Fairly spoke.
    Men do their broken weapons rather use
  Laer. Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
    Shall pitch a field when we are dead.          [Begin again]

    O coward conscience, how dost thou afflict me!
  SALISBURY. Yet tell'st thou not how thou wert entertain'd.
  QUINTUS & MARTIUS. And shall, or him we will accompany.
  Cham. Nay, rather let me have it, as you are a false thief.
    I'll reconcile me to Polixenes,
        Air, would I might triumph so!
    To get good guard and go along with me.  
    thou good for nothing but taking up; and that thou'rt scarce
    And like a mountain cedar reach his branches
    Now, if this suit lay in Bianco's power,
    Thou with an eagle art inspired then.
    But sure the bravery of his grief did put me

  FENTON. Why, thou must be thyself.
    A golden mind stoops not to shows of dross;
    Than women's are.
  ANTONY. There's beggary in the love that can be reckon'd.
    you at your sheep-shearing too. If I make not this cheat bring
    But to be free and bounteous to her mind.
  2. Watch. How if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us?  
    My careless father fondly gave away'?

  LAUNCELOT. Truly then I fear you are damn'd both by father and
    Madam, 'twas Ariadne passioning
    He plies the Duke at morning and at night,

    I saw him not these many years, and yet
    Wherein you're happy- which will make him know
    That your best friends shall wish I had been further.
    Grace me no grace, nor uncle me no uncle.
                         Re-enter CLOWN  
    To set a gloss upon his bold intent,
  BIANCA. That, being mad herself, she's madly mated.
    Vouchsafe at our request to stand aside
  DIANA. By Jove, if ever I knew man, 'twas you.
  CLEOPATRA. What, of death too,
    In London streets, that coronation-day,
  CARDINAL. But I would have him dead, my Lord of Suffolk,
  Lear. [to Goneril] Detested kite, thou liest!  
    Than by the negligent.
    And make you long become it!
    Vilely compil'd, profound simplicity.
  CORIOLANUS. What, what, what!  
    If you deny it, let the danger light
    willing to be so. I shall do my friends no wrong, for I have none
  HORTENSIO. See, how they kiss and court! Signior Lucentio,
  GLOUCESTER. What, will the aspiring blood of Lancaster
  KING EDWARD. Leave me or tarry, Edward will be King,
    O world, how apt the poor are to be proud!
    Thou hast years upon thee, and thou art too full
  EMILIA. Never, my lord.
    If that same demon that hath gull'd thee thus
    Will these turtles be gone?
    Thy grief their sports, thy resolution mock'd,
  MACDUFF. O gentle lady,
    every ten that they make the devils mar five.
     How now, Oswald?
    While we return these dukes what we decree.
    As true a dog as ever fought at head.
  KING. Stand up, lord.                   [The KING kisses the child]
  CORIOLANUS. Why then should I be consul? By yond clouds,
    A grievous burden was thy birth to me;
    ignominious treasons, makes me betake me to my heels.
London. The palace
  POLIXENES. And this my neighbour too?
    For truth's sake and his conscience; that his bones
    begins to crow?
    Our Uncle York Lord Governor of England;
             For blushing cheeks by faults are bred,
    With any size of words.
  LORENZO. Descend, for you must be my torch-bearer.
                 Shall shine from far,
    None better in my kingdom. Get you gone,
    Like a full soldier. Let's to the seaside, ho!
    leg.                                          [They wrestle]
  SIMPCOX. Red, master; red as blood.
                                                       [Exeunt.]
  HERMIA. And in the wood where often you and I
    Your hopes and friends are infinite.
     service.                                     [Gives money.]
    Out of appearance?
  Mer. Where the devil should this Romeo be?
  ROSALINE. Look what you do, you do it still i' th' dark.
  FORD
  JULIA.  [Aside]  But better, indeed, when you hold your peace.

    but a filthy piece of work.
     Who alone suffers suffers most i' th' mind,
    express the like kindness, myself, that have been more kindly
    Your beauty that did haunt me in my sleep  
    The most opportune place, the strong'st suggestion
                     Enter [Oswald the] Steward.

    'Tis ten to one this play can never please
  Fair, kind, and true, varying to other words,
  BOYET.    An I cannot, cannot, cannot,
    Would be interpreted a thing perplex'd
    The cause were known to them it most concerns;
    As for your spiteful false objections,
    If ever you have look'd on better days,
ACT IV. SCENE 1.

    Since which she was removed to Kimbolton,
    I hope he is much grown since last I saw him.
  FIRST WITCH. Show!  
  TOUCHSTONE. I will not take her on gift of any man.  
    As to peace-parted souls.
    Persuades when speaking fails.  
    Or bid me go into a new-made grave
    Then do but say to me what I should do
    The Queen is comfortless, and we forgetful
    Hector is dead; there is no more to say.
    And yet it is not that I bear thee love;
    But she is arm'd for him, and keeps her guard
    That dies in tempest of thy angry frown.
    Dere is some simples in my closet dat I vill not for the
    'Good morrow, fool,' quoth I; 'No, sir,' quoth he,
    Stay, go, do what you will, the like do I;

     Seek out where thy father is, that he may be ready for our
  NYM. Shall we shog? The King will be gone from Southampton.
    He'll make demand of her, and spend that kiss
    Gall of goat and slips of yew
    This is an accident of hourly proof,
    When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage;

    Shall I speak for thee? Shall I say 'tis so?

  Prince. A glooming peace this morning with it brings.
    Be resident in men like one another,
    might be found in the calendar of my past endeavours; for then we
  MOTH. What shall some see?
  PARIS. This is the most despiteful'st gentle greeting
  ORLANDO. With all my heart, good youth.
Dunsinane.  Before the castle.
    So that, in these ten thousand they have lost,
    And mar the seeds within! Lift up thy looks.
  PAULINA. How! not women?
    I gave bold way to my authority
    Endeavour thyself to sleep, and leave thy vain bibble-babble.
    Enforced from the old Assyrian slings;
  BRUTUS. Nay I am sure it is, Volumnius.

    is get afire by thine own ignorance,
  PANDARUS. Not I.
Enter Lady of the House and Nurse.
    with some discomfort from Wales.
    Desires for sport, and frailty, as men have?
  FABIAN. This is a dear manakin to you, Sir Toby.
    master's kinsmen.  
  QUICKLY. Blessing on your heart for 't!
    So thrive I in my dangerous affairs
    He vented them, most narrow measure lent me;
  DOLABELLA. Where's the Queen?
    Poor Clarence, by thy guile betray'd to death!
    But Romeo may not- he is banished.
    More that I may call men than you, good friend,
    Let's kiss and part, for we have much to do.
  DUKE. Vouchsafe a word, young sister, but one word.
     Or at their chamber door I'll beat the drum
ACT V. SCENE I.
    Stand more for number than for accompt.
    strip you out of your lieutenantry, it had been better you had
  SEYTON, attendant to Macbeth
    For such and so they are- these twenty years
    Affection makes him false, he speaks not true.
    They call him Troilus, and on him erect
  ROSALIND. O, they take the part of a better wrestler than myself.
    She, th' adultress; for the harlot king
  PRINCE. Shall I tell thee one thing, Poins?
    For I will hence to Warwick's other daughter;

                         SCENE II.
    about the mazzard with a sexton's spade. Here's fine revolution,
    danger is in standing to 't; that's the loss of men, though it be
    own good.

Before PAGE'S house
    With contemplation and devout desires.
    That ever eye with sight made heart lament!
    But your kind. hostess. Come, I'll question you

    Blaspheming God, and cursing men on earth.
  KATHERINE. De nails. Ecoutez; dites-moi si je parle bien: de hand,
    As he had lost some province, and a region  
  Beat. I love you with so much of my heart that none is left to
  LAUNCELOT GOBBO, a clown, servant to Shylock
                             SCENE 2.
    The wild sea of my conscience, I did steer
    But now I know her. If she be a traitor,

    For thy conceit is soaking, will draw in
     Was kinder to his father than my daughters
                  Enter DERCETAS and a guard
    We sent to thee, to give thy rages balm,
  HERMIA. O hell! to choose love by another's eyes.
  BARDOLPH. At the old place, my lord, in Eastcheap.
  MRS. PAGE. Good Master Fenton, come not to my child.
     All with me's meet that I can fashion fit.
THE END
      Enter the Prince [and Poins], marching; and Falstaff meets
  Kent. I do profess to be no less than I seem, to serve him truly
  DUKE. But she I mean is promis'd by her friends
  CHAMBERLAIN. Heaven keep me from such counsel! 'Tis most true
  Queen. So he does indeed.
  PAGE. She is no match for you.
    Henceforth be never numb'red among men!
    That liv'd, that lov'd, that lik'd, that look'd with cheer.
    Give up your body to such sweet uncleanness
    If I know more of any man alive

    scurvy doting foolish young knave's sleeve of Troy there in his
    bunches of keys at their girdles; and if a man is through with
                                              Exeunt [Carriers].
  EMILIA. Thou hast not half that power to do me harm
  GEORGE. While we devise fell tortures for thy faults.
    A lover's ear will hear the lowest sound,
    souls, it touches us not. Let the gall'd jade winch; our withers
  ROSALINE. Pray you, do my commendations;  
    crying; for the ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baes will
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Hath told the thievish minutes how they pass,
    intoxicates in his prains, did, in his ales and his angers, look
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars,
    Bow, stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel,
    And, for I should not deal in her soft laws,
    O, come apace, dispatch. I partly feel thee.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Join with the Goths, and with revengeful war
    And there an end; but now they rise again,
    This is the feast that I have bid her to,
    If this right hand would buy two hours' life,
    Though fortune's malice overthrow my state,
    I'll make you feed on berries and on roots,
  SECOND SOLDIER. Room, ho! Tell Antony, Brutus is ta'en.
    Light vanity, insatiate cormorant,
    Under yond yew tree lay thee all along,
    patiently, why, your mettle is the more. Adieu trusty Pompey.
  And therefore 'tis high time that I were hence.
    I do to spite the world.
    Come, neighbour Mugs, we'll call up the gentlemen. They will
    What say you to this, sir?
    Who, as you say, took pains to get this son,
    Lord, how it looks about! Believe me, sir,
    Are near at hand. The rest the paper tells. [Gives a letter]
  CRESSIDA. Ay, a minc'd man; and then to be bak'd with no date in  
    Else what a mockery should it be to swear!

    Give me my armor.
    To be so moral when he shall endure
    And all this courtesy! The strain of man's bred out
    'Gainst thee, fell Clifford, and thee, false Frenchwoman.
  Bene. Troth, my lord, I have played the part of Lady Fame, I found
    Thy modesty can beg.
    Where God He knows how we shall answer him;
             Care no more to clothe and eat;
Orchard of OLIVER'S house
  Gon. [to Edmund] Then shall you go no further.
     In pity of his misery, to dispatch

    leans wondrously to discontent. His comfortable temper has
    Let us die in honour: once more back again;
    have seen more and heard more, proceed accordingly.  
    Sword, pike, knife, gun, or need of any engine,
    Be sprightly, for you fall 'mongst friends.
    Should not be utter'd feebly. It is held
  Rom. Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.
    When by and by the din of war 'gan pierce
    Feeble! Thou wilt be as valiant as the wrathful dove or most
    More moving, delicate, and full of life,  
  Gads. Some eight or ten.
  Go to a gossips' feast, and go with me;
  IAGO. Blest fig's-end! The wine she drinks is made of grapes. If
    He sent me hither, stranger as I am,
  PAGE. Pray thee go down.

    Methinks I could deal kingdoms to my friends
    livers, wheezing lungs, bladders full of imposthume, sciaticas,
    In entertainment to my princely queen.
    horse-tail till they kiss their hands. Are they all ready?
    More light, you knaves! and turn the tables up,
    That they have let the dangerous enemy
  PAROLLES. That you will take your instant leave o' th' King,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    To Bolingbroke are we sworn subjects now,
  VIOLA. O my poor brother! and so perchance may he be.
    Did quarrel with the noblest grace she ow'd,  
    Lions with toils, and men with flatterers;
    To make thee full of growing. Noble Banquo,  
    Were it but told you, should be hooted at
  OLIVIA, a rich countess
    And on to-morrow bid them march away.                 Exeunt
    Your Grace has laid the odds o' th' weaker side.
  OLD LADY. What do you think me?                              Exeunt
    A treacherous army levied, one midnight
  PAGE
  PORTIA. Fie, what a question's that,
    Where is my wit? I know not what I speak.
    Let not young Mutius, then, that was thy joy,
  CELIA. Come, you look paler and paler; pray you draw homewards.
    That they did wake each other. I stood and heard them,
    And coops from other lands her islanders-
    Talbot,
    And Silvia is myself; banish'd from her
    On Thurio, whom your gentle daughter hates;
    Where you may see the inmost part of you.
    When I shall ask the banns, and when be married.
    Or if he do, it needs must be by stealth.

                                   Exeunt ROSALINE and KATHARINE

  WATCH. Enter, go in; the market-bell is rung.
  DUKE. Let all the rest give place.
A public place
  FIRST CITIZEN. The price is to ask it kindly.
    That most pure spirit of sense-behold itself,  
    Can hide you from our messengers of war,
    But yet come not. You are a tame man; go!  
    That my ability may undergo,
    That, like a lion fostered up at hand,
    And as I thrust thy body in with my sword,
    For thou wast got i' th' way of honesty.
  ANTONY. But that your royalty
    That were with him exil'd. This to be true
  HECTOR. No, faith, young Troilus; doff thy harness, youth;
  VOLUMNIA. He had before this last expedition twenty-five wounds
  CLOWN. Two faults, madonna, that drink and good counsel will amend;
  Oph. Madam, I wish it may.
  CARLISLE. My lord, wise men ne'er sit and wail their woes,
    Again shall you be mother to a king,
          [BEROWNE steps forth, and speaks to COSTARD]
  BIANCA.                    Why, whose is it?
    And would not harm me.
    Can alter a decree established;
    To chase these pagans in those holy fields
    good hare-finder and Vulcan a rare carpenter? Come, in what key
    And throwing but shows of service on their lords
ACT V. SCENE 5.
     To fall and blast her pride!


  SILVIUS. O Corin, that thou knew'st how I do love her!
    Knows not that ever he knew me.
  KING HENRY. Farewell, my Hector and my Troy's true hope.
   with an austere regard of control-

    Whither wilt thou go? Take good Cominius
    To hear the piteous moan that Rutland made  
    Alack, no remedy!- to the greedy touch
     To thy suggestion, plot, and damned practice;
                           How now! who has put in?
    The lustre in your eye, heaven in your cheek,
    Perplex'd in the extreme; of one whose hand,
    According to the honour of his sender;

    From envious malice of thy swelling heart.
    Give him deserv'd vexation. Let a guard
  EROS. Sir, his chests and treasure  
  WILLIAM. Genitive case?
    Too headstrong for their mother. See, we fools!
    His life I gave him, and did thereto ad
  Nay if thou lour'st on me do I not spend
    But burning fatal to the Talbotites.                    Exit
    Our former scruple in our strong-barr'd gates;
  CLOWN. Give me thy hand. I will swear to the Prince thou art as
  SUFFOLK. Thus is poor Suffolk ten times banished,
    I do not set my life at a pin's fee;
  BASTARD. Hew them to pieces, hack their bones asunder,
Enter DUKE, disguised as before, CLAUDIO, and PROVOST
  SON. With what I get, I mean; and so do they.
    He thinks too much; such men are dangerous.
  BASSANIO. Why, then you must. But hear thee, Gratiano:
    To-morrow I intend to hunt again.
    To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy

    Go hence in debt. And therefore, like a cipher,
  OTHELLO. Ay.
    What early tongue so sweet saluteth me?
    Free from gross passion or of mirth or anger,  
  That very hour, and in the self-same inn,
                         SCENE XV.
    the presence of Lord Mortimer, that I am the besom that must
    Women may fall when there's no strength in men.
    If not a usuring kindness, and as rich men deal gifts,
    went on four legs cannot make him give ground; and it
  KING JOHN. France, hast thou yet more blood to cast away?
    But you, that are polluted with your lusts,
  TROILUS. You cannot shun yourself.
    Two traded pilots 'twixt the dangerous shores
    With his inducement.
  Host. O, the Father, how he holds his countenance!
    Antonio never yet was thief or pirate,
    Hear me with patience.
    hold that the lips is parcel of the mouth. Therefore,
  In things of great receipt with case we prove,
       bearing the rod of silver with the dove, crowned with an
    Than Bolingbroke's return to England;
    might quickly make it right.  
    Which of you, if you were a prince's son,
    Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
                     42
     And cast you, with the waters that you lose,


  LUCENTIO.  [Aside]  Well begun, Tranio.
    Well struck in years, fair, and not jealous;  
  King. O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt.
    I wish some ravenous wolf had eaten thee.
    Which nature loathes- take thou the destin'd tenth,
    up already and call for eggs and butter. They will away
  KING RICHARD. Catesby!
  FALSTAFF. I marvel I hear not of Master Brook; he sent me
    That danger shall seem sport, and I will go.            Exit
    the officers in Windsor, to search for a gentleman that he
    Prithee to bed; and in thy pray'rs remember
  Gads. We four set upon some dozen-
    The King will suffer but the little finger
    But if you ever chance to have a child,

  HASTINGS.  [Within]  Who knocks?
  Wor. And so they shall.  
    Feed arrogance and are the proud man's fees.
    about a piece of iniquity- stealing away from his father with his
    And God forbid a shallow scratch should drive
    What sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand
    Men are but gilded loam or painted clay.
    to laugh a little.
  BOYET. Farewell to me, sir, and welcome to you.

    I put you o'er to heaven and to my mother.
    On whom these airs attend! Vouchsafe my pray'r
  ENOBARBUS. Her gentlewomen, like the Nereides,
    philosophy could find it out.

  FABIAN. Here he comes with your niece; give them way till he take
    Thou never shalt mock Diomed again.
    I know not what to say.
    'Here lies a wretched corse, of wretched soul bereft;
    For it excels your first; or if it did not,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Were but my trials of thy love, and thou
  MOTH. Peace! the peal begins.
    Descry a sail.
    there is any martial law in the world.
    Thy beck might from the bidding of the gods
    To answer all the city.
SCENE II.

    This churlish knot of all-abhorred war,
    say so.
    The Church's prayers made him so prosperous.
    Henry my lord is cold in great affairs,
    It doth appear; for, upon these taxations,
    Thou an Egyptian puppet shall be shown
  For who's so dumb that cannot write to thee,
    To requite me by making rich yourself.
    And take foul scorn to fawn on him by sending.
  MENENIUS. Now it's twenty-seven; every gash was an enemy's grave.  
    Their form confounded makes most form in mirth,
    fingers is to my fingers, and there is salmons in both. If you
  Kent. You.
  CRESSIDA. And whither go they?
    Of such as your oppression feeds upon,
  Dog. Go, good partner, go get you to Francis Seacoal; bid him bring
  FAIRY QUEEN. About, about;
  OCTAVIUS. You may do your will,
    Of Edward's heirs the murderer shall be.
  CARDINAL. [Aside to GLOUCESTER] Medice, teipsum;
  BERTRAM. I am commanded here and kept a coil with
    Art thou my boy?
  FALSTAFF. But, I pray thee, tell me this: has Ford's wife and
  LAUNCE. Thou must run to him, for thou hast stay'd so long that
    Beseeching him to give her virtuous breeding-
    But must be- will's free hours languish for
    For at Saint Mary's chapel presently
    Where youth, and cost, a witless bravery keeps.
    Lest his infection, being of catching nature,
  ALL THE PEOPLE. Tear him to pieces. Do it presently. He kill'd my
    water. Mistress Ford desires you to come suddenly.
   So soon did lose his seat, and all at once,
    congratulate the Princess at her pavilion, in the posteriors of

    Trust to't. Bethink you. I'll not be forsworn.         Exit.  
    And never will I rise up from the ground  
    And hid his crisp head in the hollow bank,
    Then give me leave to read philosophy,
    Here, my lord, a trifle of our love.
    What, shall they seek the lion in his den,
  KING. Soft! whither away so fast?
  DICK. I have a suit unto your lordship.
  YORK. Five men to twenty! Though the odds be great,
  ORLANDO. I must attend the Duke at dinner; by two o'clock I will be
  MACBETH. Prithee, see there! Behold! Look! Lo! How say you?

    By calmness or by absence; all's in anger.
  Tyb. Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries
    I may avoid him. Which of these is he?
  KING HENRY. Her sight did ravish, but her grace in speech,
    He comes to bad intent.
  Boy. I am here already, sir.
    In winter's tedious nights sit by the fire
     Who have (as who have not, that their great stars
    And, good my lord, so please you let our trains

  BOLINGBROKE. [To NORTHUMBERLAND] Noble lord,  
      shepherd!
  DESDEMONA. Alas the heavy day! Why do you weep?
    And he hath promis'd to dismiss the powers
    Forget that rarest treasure of your cheek,
    He dives into the King's soul and there scatters
  LUCIO. But yesternight, my lord, she and that friar,
  SECOND SERVANT. Away? Get you away.

  Ben. A right fair mark, fair coz, is soonest hit.
    For my part, I'll resign unto your Grace
  CAPTAIN. Orsino.
    Corrupting in it own fertility.
  ARVIRAGUS. I pray draw near.                            Exeunt
  There is such strength and warrantise of skill,
    The caterpillars of the commonwealth,
    As soldiers can. Be cheerful; wipe thine eyes.
    But that the heavens fought. The King himself
    your attempt, and he shall fall between us. Come, stand not
    And fit his mind to death, for his soul's rest.         Exit
    Which in myself I boldly will defend,
                     Enter HERMIA
    And would so, had it been a carbuncle
  Rom. And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall.
    And our weak spirits ne'er been higher rear'd
    Being not deficient, blind, or lame of sense,
     courtier, he swears.
    Or I'll unpeople Egypt.                               Exeunt
  PORTIA. There, take it, Prince, and if my form lie there,
    Will then be pang'd by me. Prithee dispatch.
    And, Richard, do not frown upon my faults,
    Ransomless here we set our prisoners free.
  OTHELLO.                                     Have with you.
    lord, Achilles, Ajax-who wears his wit in his belly and his guts
    so removed a dwelling.
  Rom. O, let us hence! I stand on sudden haste.
    O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Out of all eyes, tongues, minds, and injuries.
    I pray you tell me how my good friend doth.

    Go charge my goblins that they grind their joints
    Our setting down before't.
    My bosky acres and my unshrubb'd down,
    Here sound retreat and cease our hot pursuit.
    Not me begotten of a shepherd swain,
    But that I know them. Do they charge me further?
  WESTMORELAND. God's will, my liege! would you and I alone,
    To him that did but yesterday suspire,
  For feasts of love I have been called unto,
  BRUTUS. It will be dangerous to go on- no further.
    My speech should fall into such vile success
  BERTRAM. It shall be so; I'll send her to my house,
  CELIA. Nay, certainly, there is no truth in him.  
    Distinctly his full function.
    Knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know
    Where is the Earl?
  LUCIUS. Away, inhuman dog, unhallowed slave!
  KING EDWARD. Now am I seated as my soul delights,  
  DULL. 'Twas not a haud credo; 'twas a pricket.
  DESDEMONA. Where should I lose that handkerchief, Emilia?
    With a near aim, of the main chance of things
    Look, sir, here comes the lady toward my cell.  
    Howe'er the business goes, you have made fault
    sirrah, I have cases of buckram for the nonce, to immask our
    As you have ever been my father's honour'd friend,
    A hearty welcome.
             [They put the tapers to his fingers, and he starts]
Scene VII.
     [Here they do the ceremonies belonging, and make the circle;
    But by immortal Providence she's mine.
    Now, lords, take leave until we meet again,
    Were to import forgetfulness in me.
  MARIA. Peace, you rogue, no more o' that. Here comes my lady. Make
  VERNON. In your behalf still will I wear the same.
    Thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it.
  APEMANTUS. Would 'twere so!
    I lead espous'd my bride along with me.
    You come to fright us.

  Glou. To Dover.
    I do lament the sickness of the King,
  OLIVER. Let me go, I say.
    we know we are the King's subjects. If his cause be wrong, our  

                     50
    To make a more requital to your love!
    That with our small conjunction we should on,
    So far I read aloud;
    Assail them with the army of the King.

  BUSHY. More welcome is the stroke of death to me
    Deliver them up without their ransom straight,
  BEROWNE. Why, all delights are vain; but that most vain
    I shame to hear thee speak. Ah, timorous wretch!
    But such a one whose wrongs do suit with mine.

  DIOMEDES. What did you swear you would bestow on me?
    When grief and blood ill-temper'd vexeth him?
               With that she sighed as she stood,

    Which yet seem shut, we have but pinn'd with rushes;
    You being their mouths, why rule you not their teeth?

    her another embassy of meeting; 'twixt eight and nine is
    That nor my service past nor present sorrows
    But when I came, some minute ere the time  
  North. Farewell, good brother. We shall thrive, I trust.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  PINDARUS. Fly further off, my lord, fly further off;
    What are thy rents? What are thy comings-in?
  DUKE. Good morning to you, fair and gracious daughter.
    Courageously and with a free desire
                              SCENE:
    going will scarce serve the turn.
    And plague injustice with the pains of hell.
  AUMERLE. He means, my lord, that we are too remiss;
    Is death to any he that utters them.
    I will with all expedient duty see you.
  TYRREL. I humbly take my leave.                           Exit
    These oracles are hardly attain'd,
    Shall be to you as us like glorious.
  CRESSIDA. Then Troilus should have too much. If she prais'd him
    Here stands the spring whom you have stain'd with mud;
    Me rather had my heart might feel your love
    Your wisdom is consumed in confidence.
    A league between his Highness and Ferrara.
    God knows how long it is I have to live,
    For him was I exchang'd and ransomed.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Yield to our mercy, proud Plantagenet.
    That owes two buckets, filling one another;
                 Enter Ophelia distracted.
    could discern no part of his face from the window. At last I

    A moiety of that mass of moan to come.
    Is yet unanswer'd. I will to your father.


  FIRST GENTLEMAN. I think, or in any religion.
    Destroy what lies before 'em.
    Yet in this captious and intenible sieve
  FIRST SOLDIER. I'll whisper with the General, and know his
    With divers-colour'd fans, whose wind did seem
    as ear-wax; and the goodly transformation of Jupiter there, his
    follow him like a dwarf.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Against these giddy loose suggestions;
    significant [giving a letter] to the country maid Jaquenetta;
    (For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death),

    Turn you the key, and know his business of him:
                      Enter SIR WILLIAM LUCY
     out of placket, thy pen from lender's book, and defy the foul
    Then let my father's honours live in me,
    My son George Stanley is frank'd up in hold;
    at me.
    Where one part does disdain with cause, the other
  and therefore to the world's end will have bald followers.
    For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
    The party 'gainst the which he doth contrive
    Thersites' body is as good as Ajax',
  GREY. Now Margaret's curse is fall'n upon our heads,
    players do, I had as live the town crier spoke my lines. Nor do
    Ending with 'Brother, son, and all, are dead.'

    Prove them, and I lie open to the law;
    Nightly shall be to strew, thy grave and weep.  
    That tends to vice in man but I affirm
  BEROWNE. Let's see the penalty. [Reads] '-on pain of losing her

  Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
      Enter ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, ENOBARBUS, CHARMIAN, IRAS,
  CALIBAN. Art thou afeard?
    And pick strong matter of revolt and wrath
Rome. A public place
  HASTINGS. And so swear I.                       [They embrace]
    The pine and cedar. Graves at my command
    honour and dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
    you, Captain, if you look in the maps of the 'orld, I warrant you
  Edg. O, matter and impertinency mix'd!
     Cannot be bordered certain in itself.
  AUSTRIA. Rebellion, flat rebellion!
    'tis; I  can hardly forbear hurling things at him. I know my lady
    Who, busied in his majesty, surveys
  DUKE. What kind of woman is't?
  LUCY. Submission, Dauphin! 'Tis a mere French word:
    Th' incensing relics of it; let him approach,
  ARCHBISHOP. Here stand, my lords, and send discoverers forth
    Made me to fan you thus; but the gods made you,

    I am troubled withal.
    Yourself pronounce their office. I must tell you
  BIANCA.                  O Cassio, whence came this?
    remorse of voice? Is there no respect of place, persons, nor
  Gent. Contending with the fretful elements;
  Gon. Never afflict yourself to know the cause;
  ANTONY. Bear me, good friends, where Cleopatra bides;
       the QUEEN in her robe; in her hair richly adorned with
  Ham. Why he more than another?
    and not a tongue of them all speaks any other word but my name.  
    Are burnt and purg'd away. But that I am forbid  
  PAROLLES. Do; I'll take the sacrament on 't, how and which way you
    in't; but they themselves are o' th' mind, if it be not too rough
    Save you, sir.
    Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
  MRS. PAGE. Nay, I know not; it makes me almost ready to
  FOOL. Will you leave me there?
    And now it is about the very hour
    Like a strange soul upon the Stygian banks

  Beat. Not till God make men of some other metal than earth. Would
  DEMETRIUS. And therein, hellish dog, thou hast undone her.
    No nightingale. Look, love, what envious streaks

    Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassadors, with Drum,
  OLIVIA. Sure, you have some hideous matter to deliver, when the

  To spend her living in eternal love.
    He seem'd in running to devour the way,
                Enter soldiers, with PRINCE EDWARD
  PAGE. My heart misgives me; here comes Master Fenton.
    And, as I further have to understand,
    absence makes us unthrifty to our knowledge. Let's along.

    It is a bawdy planet, that will strike
    That you stand forfeit, being those that sue?  
  CAESAR. Bid her have good heart.
    Let me stop this way first.  [Locking the door]  So, now
    her; an if it be a match, as nothing is impossible-
  AUFIDIUS. O Marcius, Marcius!
    Warwick, although my head still wear the crown,
  LUCIUS. What a wicked beast was I to disfurnish myself against such
  Lear. Thou think'st 'tis much that this contentious storm
    swing'd me for my love, which makes me the bolder to chide you
    I'll take it from thee; and, good boy, good night.
    But owe thy pride thyself.
    Well, lords, to-day we shall have our dispatch;
    Then plain and right must my possession be;
  Gon. Not only, sir, this your all-licens'd fool,
  BULLCALF. A whoreson cold, sir, a cough, sir, which I caught with
    The northern lords that have forsworn thy colours
  Alb. My lord, I am guiltless, as I am ignorant
  SICINIUS. Such a nature,
    Our tradesmen singing in their shops, and going
  ISABELLA. Even so! Heaven keep your honour!

  VOLUMNIA. O, sir, sir, sir,
    up; marry, in blowing him down again, with the breach yourselves
    Art thou not weary, John? How dost thou fare?
    Because you are not merry; and 'twere as easy
  Beat. They swore that you were well-nigh dead for me.
  SECRETARY. Ay, please your Grace.
    The goodness of the night upon you, friends!
  ROSALIND. What shall be our sport, then?
  JULIA. How now! what means this passion at his name?
    should so know me. The courtesy of nations allows you my better
  Even for this, let us divided live,
    One of her women lawyer to me, for
  PISTOL. Brass, cur?
    you that have worn your eyes almost out in the service, you will
    With trembling wings misdoubteth every bush;
    And hang it round with all my wanton pictures;

    The table round. [Approaches the door.] There's blood upon thy  
  DUKE. Then go thou forth;
    To hear a night-shriek, and my fell of hair
     What it contains. If you shall see Cordelia
  SERVANTS
    show like gilt twopences to me, and I, in the clear sky of fame,
    My father dead, my fortune lives for me;
    Redeem from broking pawn the blemish'd crown,
    No, by my faith, Bianca.
    He was indeed the Duke; out o' th' substitution,
    If wounding, then it was to show my skill,
    That thou art even natural in thine art.
    'Twere a perpetual spoil; and till we call'd  
SCENE 3.

  Between you I shall have a holy head.
    Thou canst not, Cardinal, devise a name
    Edward for Edward pays a dying debt.
    charge his horns with garlands!
  CLIFFORD. Patience is for poltroons such as he;
    himself.
    First, for his weeping into the needless stream:
    And I dare swear you borrow not that face
    Must wear the print of his remembrance out,
  TITUS. It doth, my worthy lord, and in this match
    You lords and heads o' th' state, perfidiously
    The day is broke; be wary, look about.
    I kiss his conquring hand. Tell him I am prompt
  FIRST MUSICIAN. Ay, marry, are they, sir.
ACT III. SCENE 1.
    My house, mine honour, yea, my life, be thine,
    No better than the earth he lies upon,
    scratch'd; 'twill serve.


  WILLIAM. And good ev'n to you, sir.  
    This youth should say 'twere well, and only therefore
  ANTONY. No further, sir.
    By the false faith of him whom most I trusted;
    More man? Plague, plague!
    A thousand pounds a year for pure respect!  
          They circle POSTHUMUS round as he lies sleeping
     Which are to France the spies and speculations
    But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them.
  So am I as the rich whose blessed key,
    as any in Illyria.
            Then sigh not so,
    Unspeak mine own detraction; here abjure
    discourse most eloquent music. Look you, these are the stops.
  AENEAS. The noble Menelaus.
    No, madam, these are no venereal signs.
  PAINTER. Good as the best. Promising is the very air o' th' time;

    Or with our sighs we'll breathe the welkin dim
  Pedro. Lady, will you walk a bout with your friend?
    They had begun the play. I sat me down;
  MESSENGER. Madam, in Rome
  PROTEUS. That you are worthless.
    To sin in loving virtue. Never could the strumpet,
  JULIA.  [Aside]  He heard not that.
    This mould of Marcius, they to dust should grind it,
    to sea again. Let's be reveng'd on him; let's appoint him a
  TITUS. Your reason, mighty lord.
  JESSICA. I am sorry thou wilt leave my father so.
  PROVOST. I am the Provost. What's your will, good friar?
    Days and nights has thirty-one
    the basest horn of his hoof is more musical than the pipe of  
    If thou didst ever thy dear father love-
    That none but fools would keep. A breath thou art,
    To whip this dwarfish war, these pigmy arms,
  KING HENRY. Why, how now, uncle Gloucester!
  Cap. But Montague is bound as well as I,
    Come the next Sabbath, and I will content you.
    I tell thee, lady, this aspect of mine
    To you I speak.
    To wash this blood off from my guilty hand.
    Thou, nor thy nobles, to the crown of England.
    For, in my conscience, I was the first man
    To do our country loss; and if to live,

    I see thou art not for my company.
    Prince's officer coxcomb. Come, bind them.--Thou naughty varlet!
    one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
    And seek for sorrow with thy spectacles?
    ears grew to his tunes.
  FALSTAFF. What trade art thou, Feeble?
    A trim exploit, a manly enterprise,
    'Tis virtue that doth make them most admir'd;  
  MIRANDA, daughter to Prospero
    Lest zeal, now melted by the windy breath
    Speak ere thou diest.
               Re-enter Lucius, with the gown.
    The execution of it shall make known:  
    Come, thou new ruin of old Clifford's house;
    Thy place in Council thou hast rudely lost,
  BEROWNE. This fellow pecks up wit as pigeons pease,  
    Now his important blood will nought deny
    'Tis oft with difference- yet do they all confirm
    Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
    hope I shall see an end of him; for my soul, yet I know not why,
    Our great self and our credit to esteem
  PAGE. Master Shallow, you have yourself been a great fighter,
    Exceeds what we expected.                             Exeunt
  VIRGILIA. Ay, and mine,
    Be executed in his father's sight.
    All which we pine for now. And this report
  ANGELO. Yet give leave, my lord,
    go to- there were no more comparison between the women. But, for
    are men- Gentlemen, our dinner will not recompense this long
    That he will lose his head ere give consent
  GUIDERIUS. Is he at home?
    fresh.
  CORIOLANUS. How- traitor?
    Or those that think it is unlawful business
    All must be even in our government.
    so red. Thou must be patient. I am fain to dine and sup with
                         Enter TRINCULO  
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Call thyself sister, sweet, for I am thee;
  BASSANIO. I have it ready for thee; here it is.  
    When stubbornly he did repugn the truth
    Methinks already in this civil broil
    Say thou, shall call her mistress.' So he nodded,  
    Or will you blame and lay the fault on me?
    Fain would I go to meet the Archbishop,
    Tell you the Duke, shall prosper; bid him strive
  ROSALIND. By no means, sir. Time travels in divers paces with
  ARIEL. I go, I go.                                        Exit
     Cordelia leaves you. I know you what you are;
    Nor make replies of loathness; take the hint
    Nor to betray you any way to sorrow-
  CASSANDRA. O Priam, yield not to him!
  JULIA. Here 'tis; this is it.
    To lay upon the damn'd, which Sycorax
  Rom. It was the lark, the herald of the morn;
    It is hypocrisy against the devil.
  And his love-kindling fire did quickly steep
    Say that I wish he never find more cause
    For the base matter to illuminate
    His filth within being cast, he would appear
    shipwright, or the carpenter?


    I would not- though 'tis my familiar sin
Enter LUCIANA with ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE
[followed by Musicians].
    He can at pleasure stint their melody;
    Measure for measure must be answered.


  LUCIO. How doth my dear morsel, thy mistress? Procures she still,

    under his muffler.
                                                          Exeunt
  THESEUS. No doubt they rose up early to observe
    And touching now the point of human skill,
                    Enter SHEPHERD and CLOWN
  LEONTES. Nor night nor day no rest! It is but weakness
    In likeness of a new untrimmed bride.
    To beg of thee, it is my more dishonour  
    In Caesar's name pronounce I 'gainst thee; look
  ORLANDO. And I for Rosalind.
    Will serve to strangle thee; a rush will be a beam
          Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, FERDINAND
  CENTURION. The hand of death hath raught him.
    Out of my lean and low ability
    Trust me, I take him for the better dog.
    But like of each thing that in season grows;
    We have dispatch'd the Duke, as he commanded.
  BUCKINGHAM. If you refuse it-as, in love and zeal,
    My father's purposes have been mistook;

  CLARENCE. His Majesty,
    said she, a wise gentleman.' 'Nay,' said I, 'he hath the
  Either consent to pay this sum for me,
  DUKE. You have told me too many of him already, sir, if they be
    Which would be worn now in their newest gloss,

    From our debate, from our dissension;
    Prove you that any man with me convers'd
    It may be worth thy pains, for I can sing
  ANNE. Ill rest betide the chamber where thou liest!
    That time, acquaintance, custom, and condition,
    As low as she would wish it.
    And therefore, setting all this chat aside,  
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  CAESAR. Look you sad, friends?

    Note him, good Charmian; 'tis the man; but note him!
    His soul thou canst not have; therefore, be gone.
    To th' freshest things now reigning, and make stale

    Stands as the Capitol, directly here.
    With such bedecking ornaments of praise?
  Although I swear it to my self alone.
     with such dispositions as he bears, this last surrender of his
    Pace 'em not in their hands to make 'em gentle,
    In acclamations hyperbolical,
    If e'er my will did trespass 'gainst his love
    Swift, swift, you dragons of the night, that dawning
    Into some other chamber. Softly, pray.                Exeunt
    The cannons have their bowels full of wrath,
    The roughest berry on the rudest hedge;
    So Judas did to Christ; but he, in twelve,
    I am content to be Lucentio,
    For I have murdered where I should not kill.
    To lead you to our court; vouchsafe it then.
    under the profession of fortune-telling. She works by

  Alb. Ask him his purposes, why he appears
    indeed! I ne'er made my will yet, I thank heaven; I am not
  'In him a plenitude of subtle matter,
    At such a time, with all the rest retold,
  RODERIGO. What should I do? I confess it is my shame to be so fond,
    Out of a casement.
    Had I but said, I would have kept my word;
  How would (I say) mine eyes be blessed made,
  CLOWN. She is stirring, sir. If she will stir hither, I shall seem
  GLOUCESTER. Well, my good lord, and as the only means
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  FIRST MURDERER. Why, so he doth, when he delivers you
  KING JOHN. Good friend, thou hast no cause to say so yet,
    Th' associates tend, and everything is bent
    If I unwittingly, or in my rage,
    There comes a fellow crying out for help,
  OTHELLO. Ay, I do.
  Gon. Pray you, content.- What, Oswald, ho!
  MOPSA. Let's have some merry ones.
    They do confound their skill in covetousness;
    Still waving, as the fits and stirs of's mind
by William Shakespeare
    Though not for me, yet for your aching bones.
    Unless her prayers, whom heaven delights to hear
    Till you did make him misinterpret me-
Scene V.
    And by his hollow whistling in the leaves
    For he went sickly forth; and take good note
    And the Athenian woman by his side;
  SEBASTIAN. Foul weather?
    Raz'd out my imprese, leaving me no sign
    Yea, beg a hair of him for memory,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    His soul is so enfetter'd to her love,
                                     He walks by them and sings.
Troy. PANDARUS' orchard

    Let it not enter in your mind of love;
    and here's some for me. We may call it herb of grace o' Sundays.
  ACHILLES. Why, how now, Ajax! Wherefore do you thus?
  Player. I hope we have reform'd that indifferently with us, sir.
    That the whole life of Athens were in this!
    an ill name.' Now 'a said so, I can tell whereupon. 'For' says he
    If she be furnish'd with a mind so rare,
    There was a yielding- this admits no excuse.
    Tune a deploring dump- the night's dead silence
    And made what work I pleas'd. 'Tis not my blood
  VIRGILIA. O the gods!
    But who knows nothing, is once seen to smile;
    It is an office of the gods to venge it,
    wisdom of the world. This news is old enough, yet it is every
  RIVERS. Madam, what makes you in this sudden change?
  SIR TOBY. A contagious breath.
            like countrymen, with sacks upon their backs
    Say you not, then, our offer is compell'd.
    And would not, but in fury, fright my youth;
  MENENIUS. I tell thee, fellow,
    If I had such a tire, this face of mine
     Sought to be king o'er her.
    You pluck a thousand dangers on your head,

PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Who spoke of brotherhood? Who spoke of love?
  GROOM. my tongue dares not, that my heart shall say.
    Like little wanton boys that swim on bladders,

    And he that suffers. O, it is excellent
    wept to have seen our parting; why, my grandam having no eyes,
  CITIZEN. Why answer not the double majesties
             Where are those-
  GAOLER. Your death has eyes in's head, then; I have not seen him so
    Two may keep counsel, putting one away?

  CLEOPATRA. And may, through all the world. 'Tis yours, and we,
    Stir up their servants to an act of rage
    And stalk in blood to our possession?
  SUFFOLK. 'Tis so.
    Subdues all pangs, all fears.
    So bear I thee upon my manly shoulders;
  ANTIGONUS. La you now, you hear!
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Why, thou didst conclude hairy
         Sweet, adieu! I'll keep my oath,
    For when no friends are by, men praise themselves.
    In liberty of bloody hand shall range
    With twenty popish tricks and ceremonies
  LAVINIA. O Tamora! thou bearest a woman's face-
  Kent. With you, goodman boy, an you please! Come, I'll flesh ye!


    Ah, sirrah, by my fay, it waxes late;
               bearing Simpcox between two in a chair;
  MACBETH. If it were done when 'tis done, then 'twere well
  Beat. Why, he is the Prince's jester, a very dull fool. Only his
         Full fathom five thy father lies;
    Therefore I scant this breathing courtesy.
    Her sceptre so fantastically borne
           That the streching of a span
  EMILIA.                     He that is yours, sweet lady.
    To have them fall no more. You some permit

  GRATIANO. O upright judge! Mark, Jew. O learned judge!
    Infus'd itself in thee; for thy desires
    Your plainness and your shortness please me well.
    Killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish;
    To shallow, etc.
    Sleeps in Elysium; next day, after dawn,
    Thou hast contrived against the very life
    Therefore, since law itself is perfect wrong,


    King. 'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile.
    Mine hair be fix'd an end, as one distract;

    Was not thy father, Richard Earl of Cambridge,  
    shall die is true- but for thy love, by the Lord, no; yet I love
    And friendship shall combine, and brotherhood.

    Will you lead, lords?
  Cap. Why, I am glad on't. This is well. Stand up.
    thyself! It is clean out of the way. Seek thou rather to be
    I here abjure; and, when I have requir'd  
    Will you go, sister? Shepherd, ply her hard.
    Then yield, my lords; and here conclude with me
    As hating thee, are rising up in arms;
    The one as long as the other. 'Tis pity of him.
  BRUTUS. Impatient of my absence,
    This ensign here of mine was turning back;
      Roman prisoners, guarded; POSTHUMUS behind, and IMOGEN
    Discharge yourself of our company, Pistol.
  SELEUCUS. Enough to purchase what you have made known.
    By learned approbation of the judges. If I am


    And swim to yonder point?" Upon the word,

  LEONTES. Thou didst speak but well
    She could have run and waddled all about;
              'Tu-who;
    That I should do what I abhor to name,
    Lest it should bite its master and so prove,
  CITIZEN. Heralds, from off our tow'rs we might behold
    Due to the Moor, my lord.
    But ere I go, Hastings and Montague,
    he fought with; what wards, what blows, what extremities he
    A world by itself, and we will nothing pay
                                         [MOTH sings Concolinel]
    thither,
    beat thee. I think thou wast created for men to breathe
  APEMANTUS. O, they eat lords; so they come by great bellies.
    And brother-love I do it.  
  OLD ATHENIAN. If in her marriage my consent be missing,
  RATCLIFF. My lord!
    Done to me, undeserving as I am,
    For he that interrupts him shall not live.
    The fall of Antony.
  Nurse. Marry, farewell! I Pray you, Sir, what saucy merchant was
    To rid her from this second marriage,
  GLOUCESTER. We will not fly but to our enemies' throats.
    And by whose help I mean to chastise it.
    Or nicely charge your understanding soul
    A gentler scion to the wildest stock,
    Break ope the locks o' th' Senate and bring in


    Be it lawful that I invocate thy ghost
    Troilus-
    So angle we for Beatrice, who even now
  Hot. My uncle is return'd.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Thou hadst a Clarence too, and Richard
           Bugle bracelet, necklace amber,
as most debtors do, promise you infinitely; and so I kneel down before
   Will You walk out of the air, my lord?
    Armado a th' t'one side- O, a most dainty man!
    We'll bury him; and then, what's brave, what's noble,
     Which craves the instant use.
    there commendations go with pity-they are virtues and traitors
    And with what danger, near the heart of it.
    Ye white-lim'd walls! ye alehouse painted signs!
    And give us notice of his inclination;
                  his brother, with drum and soldiers
Capulet's house.
                        Enter LORD HASTINGS


  ARMADO. Dost thou infamonize me among potentates? Thou shalt die.
Decius, Cicero, Brutus, Cassius, and Casca; a great crowd follows,
    That shall be swallowed in this controversy.

    And though we leave it with a root, thus hack'd,
    And by his rare example made the coward
    A pattern to all princes living with her,
  HERMIONE. He something seems unsettled.  
    That appertain unto a burial.  
    Which would be so much the more dangerous
            The wren with little quill.
    As husbands have. What is it that they do
    Behold distraction, frenzy, and amazement,
    his answer?
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. And must she die for this? O, let her
  Kent. Who's there? What is't you seek?

  HASTINGS. I know they do, and I have well deserv'd it.
  SHEPHERD. I will tell the King all, every word- yea, and his son's
  FORD. Like a fair house built on another man's ground; so
    There shall be order for't.
    And with satiety seeks to quench his thirst.
    That such a keech can with his very bulk

    Or as the snake, roll'd in a flow'ring bank,
    It may be these apparent prodigies,
  TRANIO. Sir, you seem a sober ancient gentleman by your habit, but
  PROTEUS. Sebastian is thy name? I like thee well,
    articles.
   From open haunts and popularity.

Enter a COURTEZAN
    Your Highness pleased to forget my place,
    express command, under penalty, to deliver his head in the view
  ANTONIO. Fare you well; I'll grow a talker for this gear.  
  KING HENRY. I was anointed king at nine months old;
    In our remove be thou at full ourself;
  FIRST SERVANT. To be call'd into a huge sphere, and not to be seen
    the Count's was to-day with my lady, she is much out of quiet.
  They had not skill enough your worth to sing:
    inherit first, for, I protest, mine never shall. I warrant he
     bids me, though you say nothing. Mum, mum!
    And nobleness impose. At least, thus much:
    I will from hence to-day.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    You ask with such a violence, the King-
    O, ten times more- than tigers of Hyrcania.
    Brook-only for a jest.
    TIMANDRA
    Come, shadow, come, and take this shadow up,
Enter CORIOLANUS, VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, MENENIUS, COMINIUS,
    And all of you clapp'd up together in
    learned no wit by nature nor art may complain of good breeding,
  LEWIS. But what shall I gain by young Arthur's fall?
  AUTOLYCUS. Vices, I would say, sir. I know this man well; he hath
                        two or three.
    Your mystery, your mystery; nay, dispatch.           Exit Emilia.
  LADY GREY. 'Tis better said than done, my gracious lord.
  Tan sacred beauty, blunt the sharp'st intents,
  And by their verdict is determined
    How many makes the hour full complete,
  SECOND CITIZEN. Descend.
                    PORTIA, and their trains
    many irreconcil'd iniquities, you may call the business of the
    That could give more, but that her hand lacks means.
  Hero. Good Margaret, run thee to the parlour.
  PAINTER. I know them both; th' other's a jeweller.
    shall become him well; wherein if he chance to fail, he hath
    The armourer and his man, to enter the lists,
    And wears upon his baby brow the round
    again.  
    The green leaves quiver with the cooling wind
                     52
                                    Exeunt VOLUMNIA and VIRGILIA
  Of paled pearls and rubies red as blood;
    From forth this morsel of dead royalty
    O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.
    A kind of boy, a little scrubbed boy
  My tongue, though not my heart, shall have his will.
    That I am sudden sick. Quick, and return.        Exit ALEXAS
    If case some one of you would fly from us,
  PHILO. Nay, but this dotage of our general's
    Their neighing coursers daring of the spur,

  Prince. What, stand'st thou idle here? Lend me thy sword.
    But stay awhile; what company is this?
  BOLINGBROKE. Master Hume, we are therefore provided; will her
    And that's far worse than none; better have none
    The use of your own virtues, for the which
    are changeable in their wills- fill thy purse with money. The
  Lear. Dost thou call me fool, boy?
ALLS WELL THAT ENDS WELL
  Anon permit the basest clouds to ride,
             Enter TALBOT, BEDFORD, BURGUNDY, and forces,
  Prince. Speak, sirs. How was it?
    Be mad and merry, or go hang yourselves.
    Question surveyors, know our own estate
  POLIXENES, King of Bohemia
  MENENIUS. Consider this: he has been bred i' th' wars
    Of wat'ry Neptune, is now bound in with shame,
    with him. Come away.                                  Exeunt
    Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in;
  CARLISLE. The woe's to come; the children yet unborn
    Which would increase his evil. He that depends

    The people do admit you, and are summon'd
    No other obligation! By my life,
    Henry Bolingbroke
    Might have prevented many. Eros, ho!
    little little less-than-little wit from them that they have!
  HERALD. Know, Rome, that all alone Marcius did fight
The Garter Inn
    May yet ere night yield both my life and them
  IMOGEN. To Dorothy my woman hie thee presently.

  SPEED. Nay, that I can deny by a circumstance.
    Now, good sir,
  TALBOT. I am indeed.
    stomach, and therefore I must cast it up.               Exit
    Might be affronted with the match and weight
    As he is but my father's brother's son,
    Sir Walter Blunt. There's honour for you! Here's no vanity! I am
    And, to his shape, were heir to all this land-
    And show like those you are. You, worthy uncle,

  As 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found.
    You shall become true liegemen to his crown;
    To our gross selves? Good, good my lord, bethink you.  
  TIMON. Captain Alcibiades, your heart's in the field now.
    And lay those honours on your high desert.
    In him that should compare. I do not think
    Enter his thoughts, save such as doth revolve


    And men in dangerous bonds pray not alike;
    sensible Benedick's head?
  NURSE. I mean she is brought a-bed.
    Is this th' alliance that he seeks with France?
  HOST. For the which I will be thy adversary toward Anne
    We will not now be troubled with reply.
    Call them again. I am not made of stones,
  GLOUCESTER. My lord, 'tis but a base ignoble mind
    Of my petition.
    he- Master Dumbe, our minister, was by then- 'Neighbour Quickly,'
  Claud. To-morrow, my lord. Time goes on crutches till love have all
  NYM. How now, mine host Pistol!
    Thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue.
    My foes I do repute you every one;
  DAUPHIN. O perdurable shame! Let's stab ourselves.
    midnight, at Herne's oak, and you shall see wonders.
    The trumpet any more. Pray you, Emilia,
    sing; ask questions and sing; pick his teeth and sing. I know a
                Enter DULL, COSTARD, and JAQUENETTA
  OTHELLO. Well, do it, and be brief; I will walk by.
    Hath here distrain'd the Tower to his use.
  NESTOR. Wherefore should you so?
    By thy favour, sweet welkin, I must sigh in thy face;

   Must be the mistress to this theoric;
    Him will I tear out of that cruel eye
    company anatomiz'd, that he might take a measure of his own
    Lusty, and like to live. The Queen receives
  ANTONY. A good rebuke,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Of who she but bid follow.  
  BOLINGBROKE. And what said the gallant?
  PANDARUS. Where?
    proved, wit. By the Lord, this love is as mad as Ajax: it kills
    Have not devised this slander; I'll be hang'd else.
  Have emptied all their fountains in my well,
    finally, mine host of the Garter.
  Richer than wealth, prouder than garments' costs,
  Beat. How now, cousin Hero?
    As is my grief, or lesser than my name!
  MENENIUS. Prithee, fellow, remember my name is Menenius, always
    Of my revenge, thou present. But look to it:

    Against my children, brothers, and myself-
    It did not lie there when I went to bed.
    Made in her concave shores?
  IMOGEN. It poison'd me.
  Alb. Great thing of us forgot!
    A fasting tiger safer by the tooth,
    die by the law than my son should be unlawfully born. But, O, how
    I hope she will deserve well-and a little
    Now these her princes are come home again,
           Enter the GHOSTS of RIVERS, GREY, and VAUGHAN
    To hear the replication of your sounds
    the cage.
    firebrand; and therefore I call him her dream.
    Is gone to meet the King, who lately landed
  ESCALUS. Which is the wiser here, Justice or Iniquity? Is this
                              Enter Nurse.  
  Yet in good faith some say that thee behold,
    Caesar should be a beast without a heart
    And not these bastard Britaines, whom our fathers
    That comes in likeness of a coal-black Moor.
    practices he hath persecuted time with hope, and finds no other

    Why, this's a heavy chance 'twixt him and you,
    I have tremor cordis on me; my heart dances,
  DERBY. Fortune and victory sit on thy helm!
    And suffer not dishonour to approach
  CELIA. Why, how now, Ganymede! sweet Ganymede!
    Troy, whosoever, and a proper man of person. When comes Troilus?
    What you would have reform'd that is not well,
    The brawns of Hercules; but his Jovial face-
    Created only to calumniate.
  CYMBELINE. O disloyal thing,
    Although ye hale me to a violent death.
    Supposing that they saw the King's ship wreck'd,
  Harm have I done to them, but ne'er was harmed;  
    The farthest limit of my embassy.
  BUCKINGHAM. So please it you, my lord, 'twere not amiss
    What was a month old at Cain's birth that's not five weeks old as
    I thank you, honest gentlemen. Good night.
    We'll make an instrument of this; omit
    For no thought is contented. The better sort,
    Those eyes of thine from mine have drawn salt tears,
    toasts-and-butter, with hearts in their bellies no bigger than
    But what care I for words? Yet words do well
    To furnish me upon my longing journey.
The prison
    To be thus jaded by a piece of scarlet,
  MIRANDA. What is't? a spirit?
                                          Exeunt Iago and Attendants.
  And for this sin there is no remedy,
    Witty, courteous, liberal, full of spirit.
  LEONTES. Is he won yet?
    Even so thy breast encloseth my poor heart;
    I'd strive to tell you. We were dead of sleep,
    Were lovers too! Ill, to example ill,
    To voice him consul. Lay the fault on us.
    To say 'Not guilty.' Mine integrity
    again, and then I will tell him a little piece of my desires.
    One heart, one bed, two bosoms, and one troth.
The LORDS sit next the BISHOPS. The rest of the attendants stand
  ESCALUS. By the woman's means?
    And show of love as I was wont to have;
    Whiles in the mildness of your sleepy thoughts,
                            TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON, and AARON
    The history of all her secret thoughts.
    And that which should accompany old age,
    And yet I'll promise thee she shall be rich,
    With meditating that she must die once
    Creep in the minds and marrows of our youth,
    Your widow-dolour likewise be unwept!
    the finest mad devil of jealousy in him, Master Brook, that
    requests by particulars, wherein every one of us has a single
      Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
    As guilty of Duke Humphrey's timeless death.
    What, hast thou been long blind and now restor'd?
    Should yet be hungry! Common mother, thou,         [Digging]
    Drink the free air.
  COSTARD. Gardon, O sweet gardon! better than remuneration; a
    I will not love myself. Do you not love me?
                     17
    O, step between her and her fighting soul
    Bears not alive so stout a gentleman.
  STEPHANO. He that dies pays all debts. I defy thee. Mercy
  CURTIS. Here.
    Without a heart to dare or sword to draw
Another part of the wood
    aspicious persons, and we would have them this morning examined
    So full of dismal terror was the time!
  BRUTUS. It does, my boy.

    Turn thee Benvolio! look upon thy death.
    With every course in his particular.  
  BASTARD. I know not why, except to get the land.
    Vincentio, come of the Bentivolii;
    But that of hand. The still and mental parts
  OTHELLO. What dost thou think?
  ANTONY. Why do you cross me in this exigent?
  PROSPERO. There, sir, stop;
    For God doth know, so shall the world perceive,
    In the great'st humbleness, and desir'd your Highness
    For the great swinge and rudeness of his poise,
  Prince. So, two more already.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    ginger, nine score and seventeen pounds, of which he made five

     We first address toward you, who with this king
    had rather'! Your husband's here at hand; bethink you of

    I am ignorant in what I am commanded.
  ANTONY. In your bad strokes, Brutus, you give good words.

    That which thyself hast now disclos'd to me.
    So take her to thee, shepherd. Fare you well.
    What cannot be slight work.
  STANLEY. I know not, mighty sovereign, but by guess.

Enter, with Drum and Colours, Edmund, Regan, Gentleman, and Soldiers.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  PROSPERO. Then, as my gift, and thine own acquisition
    All is but toys; renown and grace is dead,

    she hath had gossips; yet 'tis a maid, for she is her master's
  DUNCAN. So well thy words become thee as thy wounds;
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE Aegion and Aemelia


    But here an angel in a golden bed
    That Lepidus of the triumvirate
    And will not temporize with my entreaties;
    When such a one as she such is her neighbour?
  Leon. My lord, my lord--

  FRENCH KING. We have consented to all terms of reason.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  CARDINAL. So, there goes our Protector in a rage.
    honest Gobbo' or, as aforesaid, 'honest Launcelot Gobbo, do not
    He is too good and fair for death and me;
                                     Exeunt GREMIO and HORTENSIO
         Be content and seek no new.
    Your worship in that sense may call him man.

    very prop.
    breed ballad-makers.
    And, Henry, hadst thou sway'd as kings should do,
      Enter TROILUS and ULYSSES, at a distance; after them
    Within her quarter and mine own precinct
    Kinsmen of mine, three at the least, that have
    I crave fit disposition for my wife,
    Though standing naked on a mountain top

    For the only she; and- pauca, there's enough.

    Upon the head of this forgetful man,
    Thou mayst bereave him of his wits with wonder.         Exit

    For well we know no hand of blood and bone

    A poor earl's daughter is unequal odds,
    I will continue that I broach'd in jest.
    Never so needful on the earth of France,
    Fortune is blind; and she is painted also with a wheel, to
  Capt. I will do't, my lord.
    Is that an answer?
  BIONDELLO
  Or on my frailties why are frailer spies,
    At the hedge corner, in the coldest fault?
  KING HENRY. Good Lord, what madness rules in brainsick
    Nor customary suits of solemn black,
  ROSALIND. Alas, what danger will it be to us,
    Raise me this beggar and deny't that lord:
    Prescribe to other, as each other's leech.
  DUKE SENIOR. But what said Jaques?
  JULIA. In what you please; I'll do what I can.
  MARIA. That if one break, the other will hold; or if both break,
  LENNOX. What's your Grace's will?
    together to be revenge on this same scall, scurvy, cogging  
  TITUS. We wait for certain money here, sir.
    Seeking to hide herself as doth the deer
ACT V. SCENE 1.
    that my master is become a notable lover?
    And take her hearing prisoner with the force
    In whose success we are gentle- I beseech you,
    Stay, I will lend thee money, borrow none.       [Throws the
    That one of two bad ways you must conceit me,

    him, I charge you, in the Duke's name. O, my son, my son! Tell
    How is it, general? Have you not hurt your head?
    If this will not suffice, it must appear
    All kinds of sores and shames on my bare head,
  CORIOLANUS. You!
  KING RICHARD. And let them die that age and sullens have;
    Holds such an enmity with blood of man
     know, sir, I am no flatterer. He that beguil'd you in a plain
  FLAVIUS. Thou art a cobbler, art thou?
    Are at my service, like enforced smiles;
    To whom am I beholding for these limbs?  
    And damn'd all those that trust them! I did hear
  CLOWN. Marry, will I; and you shall help to put him i' th' ground.
    Thanks, good friend Escalus, for thy much goodness;
     Thy medicine on my lips, and let this kiss
       claps his wings upon the table; and, with a quaint
    With all respect and rites of burial.
    Keep comfort to you, and this morning see
  MENELAUS. From Troy.
  LEWIS XI, King of France           DUKE OF SOMERSET
    In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
    Affront Ophelia.  
    fire, that's God's angel.' But thou art altogether given over,
    For I am rough, and woo not like a babe.

    It waves me forth again. I'll follow it.
  SICILIUS. The marble pavement closes, he is enter'd

    That thought is bounty's foe;
  POPILIUS,      "
  Resembling sire, and child, and happy mother,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    The other down, unseen, and full of water.
    Have I here touch'd Sicilia, and from him  
    You lov'd, I lov'd; for intermission
  Prince. Where is it, Jack? Where is it?
     To make thee seek it.'
  STEPHANO. O brave monster! Lead the way.                Exeunt
    To one that can my part in him advertise.
                                                          [Dies]
    off.
    Tears of true joy for his return to Rome.
  Lear. An you lie, sirrah, we'll have you whipp'd.
    Of Bolingbroke, covering your fearful land  
  CLOWN. Go you the next way with your findings. I'll go see if the
     And, in the fleshment of this dread exploit,

  NATHANIEL. Perge, good Master Holofernes, perge, so it shall please
    Dear for her reputation through the world,

  Bur. I know no answer.
    As may dishonour him- take heed of that;
    But men are men; the best sometimes forget.
  YORK. Why, how now, sons and brother! at a strife?
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  GLOUCESTER. And Warwick, doing what you gave in charge,  
    O, no! Alas, I rather hate myself
    shall then have no power to stand against us.
Rome. A street near the gate
    Open the door, or I will break it open.
    Their sense thus weak, lost with their fears thus strong,
  KING EDWARD. Now, Warwick, wilt thou ope the city gates,
  
    Pawn their experience to their present pleasure,

  Rom. In faith, I will. Let me peruse this face.
    Who hath abus'd me as he knows himself,
    And kiss the lips of unacquainted change,
    For you shall read that my great-grandfather
  THIRD SOLDIER. Stand!
  THESEUS. This is the greatest error of all the rest; the man should
    As I would wish mine enemy.
  DAUPHIN. That may be, for you bear a many superfluously, and 'twere

     Behold yond simp'ring dame,
    As meet to be an emperor's counsellor.
  FIRST LORD. Peace, both, and hear me speak.
    For mocking marriage with a dame of France.
    With envy of each other's happiness,
  Whose strength's abundance weakens his own heart;
              Our parents and us twain,
    And smoke the temple with our sacrifices.
    That he is thus cut off. Please it your honours
  TIMON. O sir, let it not trouble you.  
  CYMBELINE. Thou basest thing, avoid; hence from my sight
  LAUNCE. Why, fool, I meant not thee, I meant thy master.
    By a vain prophecy of Nicholas Henton.
                                           [Sitting down by her]
  BUSHY. Old John of Gaunt is grievous sick, my lord,
    Thou art not firm enough, since griefs are green;
  SOLDIER. Jack Cade! Jack Cade!

    How does your patient, doctor?

    If they shall fail, I with mine enemies
    This sport, well carried, shall be chronicled.
  IACHIMO. That others do,
    Enforc'd us to this execution?
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM

  FIRST OFFICER. If he did not care whether he had their love or no,
  OTHELLO. What, did they never whisper?
    to detract. If all the wine in my bottle will recover
Enter the King, BEROWNE, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN
    And Somerset, we will commit thee thither
    Mistress Anne Page; but notwithstanding that, I know
    Here let them end it, and God defend the right!
    Makes speed to catch the tiger- bootless speed,
    To dark dishonour's use thou shalt not have.
    acquaint the King withal, I would not do't. I hold it the more

WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  Though in our lives a separable spite,
    'Tis thought the old man and his sons were angels.
  Ros. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is,
    I would surrender it.
                 CAESAR reading a letter
  CYMBELINE. All o'erjoy'd
  HUBERT. None, but to lose your eyes.
    Unless the gods delight in tragedies?
  TROILUS. Away, away!
  KING. Good, my lord,
  CLAUDIO. I thank you, good friend Lucio.
  EROS. They are beaten, sir, and our advantage serves

    warily, fall into foul bogs. I had rather have my horse to my

    Dead to infliction, to themselves are dead;
    Not pay thee.

    Your nephew, late despised Richard, comes.
    But knows of him no more. My dearest madam,
    the ancientry, stealing, fighting-  [Horns]  Hark you now! Would
  DONALBAIN, younger son of Duncan
  CASSIO. Thanks, you the valiant of this warlike isle,
    Yet know thou, since we have begun to strike,
  Ben. Alas that love, so gentle in his view,
    The voice again; or, like a gate of steel
  POMPEY. Sit- and some wine! A health to Lepidus!

  Ham. I am but mad north-north-west. When the wind is southerly I
    King and commander of our commonweal,

    They have bereft; and do pronounce by me
  THURIO. Sir, if you spend word for word with me, I shall make your
    Give us some seats. Come, cousin Angelo;
    could never have brought her to such a canary. Yet
  IAGO. [Going.] My lord, I take my leave.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
                                                 [Tearing the letter]
    play is preferr'd. In any case, let Thisby have clean linen; and  
   You would say it hath been all in all his study;
    Hang them or stab them, drown them in a draught,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE

    The icy precepts of respect, but followed

  Jul. O comfortable friar! where is my lord?
    Sit, then, and talk with her; she is thine own.
    ideas, apprehensions, motions, revolutions. These are begot in
    Only this proof I'll of thy valour make
  BOYET. What would you with the Princess?
     Interest of territory, cares of state),
    'Tis time; descend; be stone no more; approach;
  PAULINA. I pray you, do not push me; I'll be gone.

    And like an eagle o'er his aery tow'rs
    Let me be satisfied, is't good or bad?
    A handkerchief; which, say to her, did drain
    Too late he died that might have kept that title,
    Captain Macmorris, peradventure I shall think you do not use me
  KING HENRY. Sweet Oxford, and my loving Montague,
    Abate thy rage, abate thy manly rage;
    With some suspicion. I will weep for thee;
    No, heaven forfend! I would not kill thy soul.
    If he had been as you, and you as he,
    was sending to use Lord Timon myself, these gentlemen can
    The congregated college have concluded
    Then, good my liege, mistake me not so much
    Each drop of us.
  BEROWNE. A twelvemonth? Well, befall what will befall,
    He, in good time, must his lieutenant be,
  Reg. What might import my sister's letter to him?
    For she had a tongue with a tang,
  BRUTUS. Go and commend me to my brother Cassius;
    I have this while with leaden thoughts been press'd;
    Lord of my life, commander of my thoughts,
    And here detain'd by her usurping uncle,
  OTHELLO.               And so she did.
    Thy child shall live, and I will see it nourish'd.
    And even these three days have I watch'd
    A party in this alteration, finding
  GENTLEWOMAN. Why, it stood by her. She has light by her
    If I have fewest, I subscribe in silence.
    Bury him where you can, he comes not here.
    O God that seest it, do not suffer it;
    The lane is guarded; nothing routs us but
    To hear of it. They are here about the court,
    Makes merit her election, and doth boil,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  MARIA. Nay, I prithee, put on this gown and this beard; make him
    I came into the world with my legs forward.
                                                         Exeunt.
    that I have lost my edifice by mistaking the place where

                                            Exit [with Carrier].
An orchard before Leonato's house.
  KING HENRY. Go, Salisbury, and tell them all from me
    To entertain me as your steward still.
  Is it for fear to wet a widow's eye,
    His eye against the moon. In most strange postures
    it means, say you this:
  BRUTUS. Fates, we will know your pleasures.
    Might go one way, and safely; and the end
    Now thou art come unto a feast of death,
    three'?
    'O, thus' quoth Dighton 'lay the gentle babes'-
    But match to match I have encount'red him,
  DOLABELLA. Cleopatra-
    See, see! they join, embrace, and seem to kiss,
    Jack, meet me to-morrow in the Temple Hall
          That sir which serves and seeks for gain,
  JOHN. To fight I will, but not to fly the foe.
    Upon a lazy bed the livelong day
    Had you first died, and he been thus trod down,
  Voltemand, courtier.
    I be not found a talker.
    That none so small advantage shall step forth
    Shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break,
  LEWIS. Then further: all dissembling set aside,
  LEPIDUS. What, shall I find you here?
    Threaten the threat'ner, and outface the brow
    Under the which is writ 'Invitis nubibus.'
  PYRAMUS. Wilt thou at Ninny's tomb meet me straightway?
    My conscience first receiv'd a tenderness,
  DAUGHTER. And so will I.  
    Sot, didst see Dick Surgeon, sot?

    With less respect than we do minister
    Fear not my truth: the moral of my wit
    But in thy fortunes am unlearn'd and strange.
                             [Flourish. Cornets. Then exeunt all
  BASSET. Yes, sir; as well as you dare patronage  
    Th' affliction of my mind amends, with which,
  QUEEN MARGARET. And here's to right our gentle-hearted king.
it, and make you merry with fair Katherine of France; where, for

  VOLUMNIA. One on's father's moods.
    of my mouth, my heart in my belly, ere I should come by a fire to
                Sink in apple of his eye.
  DIOMEDES. As Hector pleases.

    'Gainst my captivity. Hail, brave friend!
France. Before Harfleur
    brother, a very simple gentleman! I have sold all my trumpery;  
  NORTHUMBERLAND. How far is it to Berkeley? And what stir
  PISTOL. Sweet knight, I kiss thy neaf. What! we have seen the seven
  HERMIA. A privilege never to see me more.
    Do wrong to none; be able for thine enemy
    With blood and sword and fire to win your right!
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. No, sir; I think the meat wants that I have.
    my father, which I think is within me, begins to mutiny against
    And the new deputy now for the Duke-
  MRS. PAGE. Go in with us and see; we have an hour's talk
    Despairing of his own arm's fortitude,
    Not wagging his sweet head; and yet as rough,
  Laer. Must there no more be done?
    But, O malignant and ill-boding stars!
     When power to flattery bows? To plainness honour's bound
  Hor. It beckons you to go away with it,
  CASSIUS. Casca, by your voice.
    It were not good; for therein should we read
    Destroy'd themselves and lost the realm of France!
  Edg. Bless thy five wits!  
    Let it be hid. Gratiano, keep the house,
     Save what beats there. Filial ingratitude!
  BASSANIO. Ay, sir, for three months.
    You have as little honesty as honour,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    devised in these three chests, of gold, silver, and lead- whereof
  KING RICHARD. Ha! am I King? 'Tis so; but Edward lives.
    I love thee infinitely. But hark you. Kate:
  FIRST LORD. We shall, noble Captain.
  FALSTAFF. She shall not see me; I will ensconce me behind
  DAUPHIN. Well, 'tis not so, my Lord High Constable;
  BRUTUS. Why, I will see thee at Philippi then.     Exit Ghost.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Where is the gentle Rivers, Vaughan,
    A distance from her, while her Grace sat down
    Away with it. Come, let me have a bigger.
    There must I be unloos'd, although not there
  ELINOR. There's a good mother, boy, that blots thy father.
    Which live like venom where no venom else
    'Thou maiden youth, be vanquish'd by a maid.'
                     29
  CASSIUS. Will you sup with me tonight, Casca?
  Jul. O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?
  FALSTAFF. As I am a gentleman!
    My brother shall know of it; and so I thank you for your good
    December. But I hope you have no intent to turn husband, have
    I'll run away till I am bigger, but then I'll fight.
  CLEOPATRA. Is Antony or we in fault for this?
    What from your Grace I shall deliver to him.
  ROSALIND.   'From the east to western Inde,
    Your naked infants spitted upon pikes,

  HELENA. There's something in't
    monster of the multitude; of the which we being members should
    Within this three mile may you see it coming;
    I'll read you matter deep and dangerous,
    Our royal master's murther'd.
    To hear thee speak of Naples. He does hear me;
    take care for himself; for all is but fortune. Coragio,
     Than I have here proclaim'd thee.
  Since spite of him I'll live in this poor rhyme,
  PORTIA. It must not be; there is no power in Venice
  Fal. All is one for that. (He drinketh.) A plague of all cowards
  BOLINGBROKE. Strong as a tower in hope, I cry amen.
    There's the moral. Now the l'envoy.

  Of grief and blushes, aptly understood
    Let us not burden our remembrances with
    To sit about the coronation.
     As I am glad I have not, though not to have it

    Her faction will be full as strong as ours.
    The other is daughter to the banish'd Duke,
    I have outstood my time, which is material

    For I will raise her Statue in pure gold,
    strew'd, cobwebs swept, the serving-men in their new fustian,
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Nay, nothing; all is said.
    Full of comparisons and wounding flouts,

     The wages of their virtue, and all foes
  VAUX. Prepare there;
    Which smoked with bloody execution,
     Shall so wear out to naught. Dost thou know me?
    Clapp'd on the outward eye of fickle France,  
    Sound a flourish. [Enter Trumpets and Kettledrums. Danish
  Since seldom coming in that long year set,
    New woo my queen, recall the good Camillo-
Enter two Of VARRO'S MEN, meeting LUCIUS' SERVANT, and others,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Neither.
                               Exeunt TROILUS, CRESSIDA, and DIOMEDES
    An honourable conduct let him have-
  Mercutio, kinsman to the Prince and friend to Romeo.
    Messala, I have here received letters  
    What dost thou, or what art thou, Angelo?
    Here is a letter; read it at your leisure;  

  GUIDERIUS. Nay, what hope
    And so shall mine, before you touch the meat.
    To taint that honour every good tongue blesses,
    Now show yourselves men; 'tis for liberty.
    Into this sea of air.
    Holds idleness your subject, I should take you
    Lucullus you; I hunted with his honour to-day. You to Sempronius.
    The crying babe controll'd with this discourse:

    Yet this before my father's Majesty-
    We must talk in secret. Nurse, come back again;
  TITUS. Publius, how now? How now, my masters?  
    To smother up the English in our throngs,
    misplaced; and the bountiful blind woman doth most mistake in her
  Ham. Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
    Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
    Here is a gentleman whom by chance I met,
Enter ROSALIND and CELIA
                                                          HAMLET.'
      spoke;

    Let it be virtuous to be obstinate.
    glimpse of, nor any man an attaint but he carries some stain of
    Made mine eyes water; but more merry tears
    If that your moody discontented souls
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Nay, then indeed she cannot choose but  
  Fal. Setting thy womanhood aside, thou art a beast to say
    To every ticklish reader! Set them down
    And therefore, Tranio, for the time I study,  
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    That feelingly persuade me what I am.'
               Speak, speak. Quite dumb?
    Which died in Geffrey, and the hand of time
              London; Westminster; Kimbolton
  Or else receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?
    Eleven hours I have spent to write it over,
    vengeance; so that here men are punish'd for before-breach of the
  And happy were I in my timely death,
  Hot. No harm. What more?
  SERVILIUS. May it please your honour, my lord hath sent-
Enter PRIAM, HECTOR, TROILUS, PARIS, and HELENUS
    There is my gage, the manual seal of death
    flown over many knavish professions, he settled only in rogue.

    officer he is in those suggestions for the young earl. Beware of  
    Are we turn'd Turks, and to ourselves do that
    I train'd thy brethren to that guileful hole
    Release my brother; and, after much debatement,
  MRS. FORD. What cause of suspicion?
    So justly to your grave ears I'll present
  Nativity once in the main of light,
  DESDEMONA. With who?
    Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
    She would applaud Andronicus' conceit.
  MARIANA. I am always bound to you.                        Exit
  Prince. Tell me now in earnest, how came Falstaff's sword so
    ha?

  FIRST MURDERER. Ho! who's here?
    'Tis not the devil's crest.  
  MARIA. And you too, sir.
    Now get thee hence: the King, thou know'st, is coming;
    A franklin's huswife.
    To beautify thy triumphs, and return
    Fellow, what miracle dost thou proclaim?
    And spies a far-off shore where he would tread,
    all together.
    Have they been merry! which their keepers call
    You swore to me, when I did give it you,  
      phrase.
     'Dear daughter, I confess that I am old.          [Kneels.]
    A pow'r I have, but of what strength and nature
    The petty rebel, dull-brain'd Buckingham,
  CANTERBURY. The sin upon my head, dread sovereign!
    But with a ling'ring dram that should not work  
  ANTONY. I found you as a morsel cold upon
    Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
    Civil dissension is a viperous worm
    And thus I prophesy, that many a thousand
    Traitors ensteep'd to clog the guiltless keel,
  BANDITTI. Where?
  Don John, his bastard brother.
    And in such forms which here were presuppos'd
  BRABANTIO.                  God be with you! I have done.  
    Ill spirit, I would hold more talk with thee.
  GREY. Never did faithful subject more rejoice
  LUCIUS the Roman, comes to Milford Haven
    Though rebels wound thee with their horses' hoofs.
    Holla, ho! Curtis!
    To Scotland; and concludes in hearty prayers
    And so supplant you for ingratitude,  
    With feigning voice, verses of feigning love,
    And give direction. And do but see his vice;
  Then in the number let me pass untold,
   A kingdom for a stage, princes to act,

    Knavery's plain face is never seen till used.               Exit.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Beshrew me, but his passions move me so  
    servant.
    And by the worth and honour of himself,
    In my heart's love hath no man than yourself.
  LORENZO. Who comes with her?
    Up to the elbows, and besmear our swords;
    hang'd. This is to Lord Timon; this to Alcibiades. Go; thou wast
         When blood is nipp'd, and ways be foul,
    How quickly should you speed!
    To outlook conquest, and to will renown
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. There's none but witches do inhabit here,
    see't.
    Caesar sits down in Alexandria, where
    And we shall feed like oxen at a stall,
    vessel.
  Prince. What men?
                             'A miracle!'  
    She hath had too much wrong; and I repent
    They say the Bishop and Northumberland

  FIRST OUTLAW. We'll have him. Sirs, a word.
    In measureless content.
    Drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes,
    Long as my exile, sweet as my revenge!
    As doth a lion in a herd of neat;
    letters for him. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of  
  Friar. Stay then; I'll go alone. Fear comes upon me.
  Rom. So thrive my soul-
    May, even in their wives'and children's sight,
    Immediately they will again be here
    Pewter. But, Francis, darest thou be so valiant as to play the

  Ham. Nay, I know not.
  ROSALIND. Marry, that should you, if I were your mistress; or I
  ABBOT. A woeful pageant have we here beheld.
    Strive mightily, but eat and drink as friends.
  TUBAL. But Antonio is certainly undone.
  Guil. Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
    And pawn mine honour for their safety. Since
  BOLINGBROKE. I pardon him, as God shall pardon me.

                                  Exeunt LAUNCELOT and OLD GOBBO
    Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
    the major part of your syllables; and though I must be content to
  TRINCULO. Your lieutenant, if you list; he's no standard.  
    Thither he darts it. Bosom up my counsel
    Wrest once the law to your authority;
    Had she affections and warm youthful blood,
    But this one word, whether thy tale be true.
    As twenty seas, if all their sand were pearl,
    Others like merchants venture trade abroad;
    mark to thyself, like a honest plain-dealing man?
    Through all the kingdoms that acknowledge Christ.
        'On a day-alack the day!-
    Are with more spirit chased than enjoyed.
    A gait, a state, a brow, a breast, a waist,  
  Edg. [within] Fathom and half, fathom and half! Poor Tom!
     whisper'd ones, for they are yet but ear-kissing arguments?
  but words.
  Lear. Come, boy.
  LORD BARDOLPH. Tell thou the Earl
    in mine inn but I shall have my pocket pick'd? I have lost a
    Will answer in mine honour.
  SICINIUS. Here's he that would take from you all your power.
    Culling the principal of all the deer.
    Becomes your enemy for mocking him
  BASSIANUS. Tribunes, and me, a poor competitor.
  KING. All hail, sweet madam, and fair time of day!
    Well, so its stands; and thus, I fear, at last
  And yet methinks I have astronomy,
    Losing his verdure even in the prime,
  Hor. That is most certain.
  DUKE SENIOR. Dost thou believe, Orlando, that the boy
                     66  
    Will laugh a siege to scorn. Here let them lie
    A punishment or trial? Yes; no wonder,
    Octavius, Antony, and Lepidus
  OTHELLO. A liberal hand. The hearts of old gave hands;
    spread yourselves.
    And power, unto itself most commendable,
    Heave him away upon your winged thoughts
    This tale of Heme the Hunter for a truth.

  DUCHESS. Good faith, good faith, the saying did not hold
    As you owe to your wife.
    Unlike all others, chaffless. Pray your pardon.
    Would imitate, and sail upon the land,
  FORD. Nay, I'll to him again, in name of Brook;
    Only attended by Nerissa here,
     To shield thee from diseases of the world,

  EGEUS. It is, my lord.
    is, beyond our element. We know nothing. Come down, you
  QUINCE. Here is the scroll of every man's name which is thought
  Beat. You kill me to deny it. Farewell.
    The heavens do low'r upon you for some ill;
  OTHELLO. I am not sorry neither. I'ld have thee live,
    thou art made, if thou desir'st to be so; if not, let me see thee
    That all the plagues of hell should at one time
    Here to make good the boist'rous late appeal,
    Thy tears are womanish, thy wild acts denote

             If it do come to pass
    From off these fields, where, wretches, their poor bodies
    Come to thy heart as that within my breast!
  WOLSEY. There was the weight that pull'd me down.
    with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players (which I
    Lavinia, though you left me like a churl,

    Uncharitably with me have you dealt,

  CHIEF JUSTICE. You shall have letters of me presently.
    Therefore devise with me how we may fly,
    I will not ruinate my father's house,
    'Twixt you and your poor brother.
ACT II. SCENE I.
    Should have shook lions into civil streets,
    thousand ducats.

    Thy leg a stick compared with this truncheon;
    The lamps of night in revel; is not more manlike
    Upon the right and party of her son?  
  TROILUS. Call here my varlet; I'll unarm again.
    with me?
  John. Brother, I'll go and bring it thee.                 Exit.
  Claud. Rightly reasoned, and in his own division; and by my troth
SCENE 2.
    and makes it course from the inwards to the parts extremes. It
    Their liberties, make them of no more voice
    Thou wilt but add increase unto my wrath.
     My name is Edgar and thy father's son.
    No farther halting! Satisfy me home
              Your sad tires in a mile-a.                   Exit
    be recovered.
    I learn'd of thee. How? not dead? not dead?-
and OTHERS
    I am marble-constant; now the fleeting moon
    But come!

                                                  Exit Reynaldo.
    think you the most pathetical break-promise, and the most hollow
    Only deserve my love by loving him.
    This found I on my tent this morning.
  MAYOR of LONDON  
    And free access and favour as the rest.
    The hum of either army stilly sounds,
    Do thy right nature.                        [March afar off]
  ADAM,   servant to Oliver
    No more shall trenching war channel her fields,

    And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepar'd him
Enter ADRIANA, LUCIANA, the COURTEZAN, and a SCHOOLMASTER
  Officers, Soldiers, Messengers, and Attendants
  MESSENGER. Madam,
    She knows the heat of a luxurious bed;
    All men are bad and in their badness reign.
    Yet I am sworn, and I did purpose, boy,
  MRS. PAGE. Ay, in good sadness is he; and talks of the basket
    and such-like trifles, nothing comparing to his; yet, had he
    Mistress Ford. You dissembling knight!
  THERSITES. Finch egg!  
    SCARUS. I'll halt after.                              Exeunt
    shame me.
    Yield stinging nettles to mine enemies;
  POINS. No abuse!
  Glou. Go in with me. My duty cannot suffer
  DUKE. One face, one voice, one habit, and two persons!

    To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
    His further gait herein, in that the levies,
  SIR TOBY. Ay, Biddy, come with me. What, man, 'tis not for gravity
  Pedro. Lady Beatrice, I will get you one.
    Compare her face with some that I shall show,
  CELIA. It is as easy to count atomies as to resolve the  
  ALCIBIADES. My heart is ever at your service, my lord.
    Doing the execution and the act
    Let all untruths stand by thy stained name,
    He bores me with some trick. He's gone to th' King;
  ACHILLES. I do believe it; for they pass'd by me
  ANTONY. Is it not strange, Canidius,
    Where is thy lady? In a word, or else
  SECOND WATCH. Stand, and go back.
  Prince. And why not as the lion?
  I greatly fear my money is not safe.
    And thou art all my child. Towards Florence is he?
Alarum. Enter RUTLAND and his TUTOR
    I have an hour's talk in store for you;
    That teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long,
    And birth that thou shouldst stand while Lewis doth sit.

    Be closed in our household's monument.
    And it was dyed in mummy which the skillful
    And when they show'd me this abhorred pit,
    Shall this his mock mock of their dear husbands;
  ALONSO. Lead off this ground; and let's make further
    Will o'er some high-vic'd city hang his poison

    Put the wild waters in this roar, allay them.
    Be to the prejudice of her present state,

    and his wraths, and his cholers, and his moods, and his
  BATES. I think it be; but we have no great cause to desire the
    And fly would Talbot never, though he might.
    With solemn reverence; throw away respect,
  Jul. Can heaven be so envious?
    What is it that you would impart to me?
    my service for any other reason than to set me off, why then I
ADRIANA. Go fetch it, sister.  [Exit LUCIANA]  This I wonder at:
  LEONTES. Break up the seals and read.
  DECIUS. What, shall we forth?
  CADE. Now is Mortimer lord of this city. And here, sitting upon
          In the spring time, the only pretty ring time,
    I see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearl
    And thus the native hue of resolution
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Ay, madam.
    Which, from the tongue of roaring Typhon dropp'd,
     Now outlaw'd from my blood. He sought my life
    With the consent of supreme Jove, inform
    This little abstract doth contain that large
  I grant I never saw a goddess go,
                               the curtain and sits reading pensively
  QUEEN MARGARET. [Aside] If that go forward, Henry's hope is done.
                    Jove knows I love,
    And I will sit as quiet as a lamb;
Scene II.
  FLUELLEN. He is a craven and a villain else, an't please your
  CONSTABLE. Stars, my lord.


    Since many a wooer doth commence his suit
  COUNTESS. 'Tis the best brine a maiden can season her praise in.
Enter the King, Lord John of Lancaster, Earl of Westmoreland,
    Not knowing them until we know their grave.
    With his surcease, success; that but this blow
    Among a sisterhood of holy nuns.
    Unbated and envenom'd. The foul practice
  FERDINAND. Though the seas threaten, they are merciful;
    That warmer days would come. In these fear'd hopes
  LUCIO. Sir, my name is Lucio, well known to the Duke.
    Bourn, bound of land, tilth, vineyard, none;
  Ham. It shall to the barber's, with your beard.- Prithee say on.

  PANDARUS. Pretty, i' faith.
                     THE PROLOGUE.

  IACHIMO. [Kneeling] I am down again;
    For we which now behold these present days,
  COSTARD. Sir, the contempts thereof are as touching me.
    A sable silver'd.
    To do the act that might the addition earn
    With folded arms. This poor right hand of mine
  POMPEY. Let's ha't, good soldier.
    the stones of the foresaid prunes-

  In bed, he slept not for my urging it;
    Here comes the Prince and Claudio.

    To think so base a thought; it were too gross

          Ne'er turns the key to th' poor.
  CONSTABLE. Why, an our ranks are broke.
    Your discipline in war, wisdom in peace,  
             Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
    And ever three parts coward,- I do not know
    So rarely kind, are as interpreters
  CORNELIUS. I humbly take my leave.                        Exit  
    have more occasion to know one another. I hope upon
    Nor should that nation boast it so with us,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Translate his malice towards you into love,
    Against a sworder! I see men's judgments are

    I would speak blasphemy ere bid you fly;
  COMINIUS. But I fear
    I had fear'd death, of all the men i' th' world
The park
  BRUTUS. O Cassius, I am sick of many griefs.
          The sweet and bitter fool
    He pageants us. Sometime, great Agamemnon,
     satisfaction, and that without any further delay than this very
    Or pile ten hills on the Tarpeian rock,

  By unions married do offend thine ear,
  Rom. O, I am fortune's fool!
    And his opinion. Now I change my mind,
    bid me farewell.
    Though thanks to all, must I select from all; the rest
    much love as she finds. There is more owing her than is paid; and
    Their medicinal gum. Set you down this;

  PHILOSTRATE. Here, mighty Theseus.
    'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
  No longer mourn for me when I am dead,
  ARVIRAGUS. So say I. Amen.  
  Guil. We will ourselves provide.
    Ere from this war thou turn a conqueror;
    Pursuing that that flies, and flying what pursues.'
  MOTH. Minime, honest master; or rather, master, no.
    Whisper the spirits of thine enemies
    to strike at me, that your arrow hath glanc'd.
    secrets of your army, and made such pestiferous reports of men
  GRUMIO. Why, 'Jack boy! ho, boy!' and as much news as thou wilt.
  COSTARD. By my troth, most pleasant! How both did fit it!
  KING RICHARD. I partly know the man. Go, call him hither,
    And therefore in this city will I stay
  GUIDERIUS. With his own sword,
    Baying at his heels. Never fear that.
    That bucket down and fun of tears am I,
  West. Faith, Sir John, 'tis more than time that I were there, and
    Desiring thee to lay aside the sword
  I think you all have drunk of Circe's cup.
    conscience' sake, to help to get thee a wife.
  HELENA. Then shalt thou give me with thy kingly hand
    And that is this, and this with thee remains.

    Tears our recountments had most kindly bath'd,
    In your lord's scale is nothing but himself,
    Against a bird, do I with Mowbray fight.
  KING EDWARD. So, Master Mayor. These gates must not be shut
               Thus Thisby ends;
    The mered question. 'Twas a shame no less
    O, but remember this another day,
    wits are so diversely colour'd; and truly I think if all our wits  
    My friend Stephano, signify, I pray you,
  Boy, Son of Macduff  
    Yourself, assisted with your honour'd friends,
    Where Charles the Great, having subdu'd the Saxons,
  TITUS. I know not, Marcus, but I know it is-
  TRANIO. Sir, this is the house; please it you that I call?
  VARRO'S SERVANT. Aside, aside; here comes Lord Timon.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What complexion is she of?
  DUKE OF VENICE. I am sorry that your leisure serves you not.

    where Troilus is. Hark! do you not hear the people cry 'Troilus'?
   List his discourse of war, and you shall hear
  JESSICA, daughter to Shylock  
  MRS. PAGE. We will do it; let him be sent for to-morrow
    Is as a fury to torment my soul;
  BUCKINGHAM. Lo you, my lord,
                                                   Exit [Friar].
                                               [Takes him aside]
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Henceforth I vow it shall be so for me.
     More than in your addition.
    To-morrow shall you bear our full intent
    If I say sooth, I must report they were
    Which makes it tedious; for in all the play
    And no such matter? Rumour is a pipe
            Enter HELENA in the dress of a pilgrim

    And that we are contented Caesar shall
    For when you should be told they do prepare,
     To some retention and appointed guard;
    If at Philippi we do face him there,
    made it more violent and unruly. Go you to Angelo; answer his
  TRANIO. I love no chiders, sir. Biondello, let's away.

  SLENDER.  [Aside]  O sweet Anne Page!
    My best beloved and approved friend,
    It is a banquet to me. Let's after him,
  CASSIO. He is not yet arrived, nor know I aught
  TROILUS. Hold, patience!
  AUSTRIA. And your lips too; for I am well assur'd
  ALCIBIADES. My lord-
    Thou great commander, nerve and bone of Greece,  
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS and SIMPLE
    They had such courage and audacity?
    do not become a man.
    Decline to your confounding contraries
  PISTOL. Must I bite?
    How far into the morning is it, lords?
    Let it be call'd the wild and wand'ring flood;  
    There to dispose this treasure in mine arms,
    As cherry is to cherry.
         Tybalt under Romeo's arm thrusts Mercutio in, and flies
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  EDWARD. Even as thou wilt, sweet Warwick, let it be;
                        in their proper habits
    Nay, in the body of the fleshly land,
    Have no more profit of their shining nights

  WILLIAMS. I warrant it is to knight you, Captain.
    Then crush this herb into Lysander's eye;
    He might have kept that glory to this day;
  
    To Bolingbroke.
    With fervency drew up.
  I warrant, her rags and the tallow in them will burn
    Nay, but first let me see, let me see, let me see.
ACT I. SCENE 1.
    Leave your crisp channels, and on this green land
    Honest as either, to purge him of that humour
    You wrong me, sir, thus still to haunt my house.  
  Leon. Her mother hath many times told me so.
  Behind the ditches of the abbey here.
  KING HENRY. Your reproof is something too round; I should be angry
  2. Serv. When good manners shall lie all in one or two men's hands,
  CADE. Was ever feather so lightly blown to and fro as this
    To die with length'ned shame.
    In precise guards! Dost thou think, Claudio,
    Methinks 'tis prize enough to be his son.
    A loving nurse, a mother to his youth.
    And ask remission for my folly past.
    To tell you, fair beholders, that our play
  BEROWNE. Ay, and worn in the cap of a tooth-drawer. And now,
    To noise abroad that Harry Monmouth fell
  DOLL. Sirrah, what humour's the Prince of?
  Claud. Good day to both of you.
    Suppose this arm is for the Duke of York,
England. Another part of the battlefield
  BASSET, of the Red Rose or Lancaster faction
Alarum.  Fight at sea.  Ordnance goes off.  Enter a LIEUTENANT,
    I pluck this white rose with Plantagenet.
    Pray, sit; more welcome are ye to my fortunes
    I cry your honour mercy; you may, worst  
    I would not tell you what I would, my lord.
    Who from my cabin tempted me to walk
    As so defend thee heaven and thy valour!
  DOCTOR. Hark, she speaks! I will set down what comes from her, to
    Dare no man answer in a case of truth?
    Takes virtuous copies to be wicked, like those that under hot
  PETER. He kills her in her own humour.
    Thou makest the triumviry, the corner-cap of society,
  CASSIUS. Why, he that cuts off twenty years of life
    To velvet guards and Sunday citizens. Come, sing.
    Be hung with Caesar's trophies. I'll about
  Chief Watch. Here is a friar, and slaughter'd Romeo's man,
  CLEOPATRA. His legs bestrid the ocean; his rear'd arm
    More feathers to our wings; for, God before,
    He is frank'd up to fatting for his pains;
    Have lipp'd, and trembled kissing.
    To buy a present for the Emperor;
    And thou shalt have her. Wast not to this end
  IACHIMO. My humble thanks. I had almost forgot
    For he is but a bastard to the time
  BUCKINGHAM. My gracious sovereign?

    What's o'clock, Francis?
    Shall I be frighted when a madman stares?
    Not a word?
    hawthorns and elegies on brambles; all, forsooth, deifying the
    Each putter-out of five for one will bring us
  Laer. I will do't!
    were your very very Rosalind?
    For these, Tribunes, in the dust I write  
     an Attendant.] How now? What art thou?
    Both noisome and infectious.
    Master Page?
    Desire them home. Give me thy hand, my cousin;
    The bloody Douglas, whose well-labouring sword

SCENE II.
  SPEED. What need she, when she hath made you write to yourself?
                      Enter NORTHUMBERLAND
    dare not give. Wherefore, what's the instance? Tongue, I must put  
    Mine shall not do his Julia so much wrong.
  COMINIUS. The shepherd knows not thunder from a tabor
                                           [They converse apart]
  MARIA. Sir Toby, madam, your kinsman.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Helen, the mother of great Constantine,
  Mistress Quickly, hostess of the Boar's Head in Eastcheap.
    That wounds th' unsisting postern with these strokes.
    Grief would have tears, and sorrow bids me speak.     Exeunt
    Not what is dangerous present, but the los
    Nice longing, slanders, mutability,
  SIMPCOX. At Berwick in the north, an't like your Grace.
  Wife. Nurse, where's my daughter? Call her forth to me.
  LEWIS. Father, to arms!
    Which Caesar and his fortune bare at once.
  Rom. O, thou wilt speak again of banishment.  
    And true subjection everlastingly.
    To ear the land that hath some hope to grow,
  DUKE. So I believe; but Thurio thinks not so.
  THESEUS. I must confess that I have heard so much,  
    Or else you famish- that's a threefold death.
    me, look you, a few disputations with you, as partly touching or
  Alb. Most monstrous!
SCENE IV.
    Why, now thou diest as bravely as Titinius,
    But, as I think- for truly would I speak,
                          and soldiers
  SANDYS. I am your lordship's.                                Exeunt
    What rhubarb, cyme, or what purgative drug
    clown bore it, the fool sent it, and the lady hath it: sweet
    Thou diedst, a most rare boy, of melancholy.  
    your memory, begin at this line- let me see, let me see:
    Most valour, spoke not for them. Th' accusation
    I have receiv'd much honour by your presence,
  VALERIA. Verily, I do not jest with you; there came news from him
    There died this morning of a cruel fever
    This is the hand which, with a vow'd contract,
    And he doth sin that doth belie the dead,
    If she be fair and wise, fairness and wit,
SCENE IV.
    Keep some state in thy exit, and vanish.      [MOTH retires]
    If ever I remember to be holy,
    Which patience could not pass.
    With what contempt he wore the humble weed;
    And that the people of this blessed land
    Airy succeeders of intestate joys,
  FALSTAFF. Do so. Between nine and ten, say'st thou?
     To take the indispos'd and sickly fit
  ANTONY. Well, well;

    A caitiff recreant to my cousin Hereford!
    No better term than this: thou art a villain.
    Turn thou the mouth of thy artillery,
    To spend that shortness basely were too long
    What say you to a letter from your friends
  And of this book, this learning mayst thou taste.  
    the box of the ear that the Prince gave you- he gave it like a
  Though others have the arm, show us the sleeve;
    Without offence to utter them. Thus, pretty lady,
    best to have some guard about you if he come; for sure the man is
  Let Love, being light, be drowned if she sink.
  BOYET. Do you hear, my mad wenches?
    That hearing how our plaints and prayers do pierce,
    Will you be rul'd by me?
    A thousand irreligious cursed hours,
    Our fears do make us traitors.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    aside with me. I have studied eight or nine wise words to speak
    So York must sit and fret and bite his tongue,
  Was it his spirit, by spirits taught to write,
    answering. Speaking is for beggars: he wears his tongue in's
    To undercrest your good addition
    Sooner than quittance of desert and merit
  KING HENRY. Who's there, I say? How dare you thrust yourselves
    maidenhead?
     Fourscore and upward, not an hour more nor less;
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Some devils ask but the parings of one's nail,
  KING RICHARD. How now! What means death in this rude assault?
    How it goes with us, and do look to know
  From whom my absence was not six months old,
    Our poesy is as a gum, which oozes
    What, what! good cheer! Why, how now, Charmian!
    Is not lead a metal heavy, dull, and slow?
    all the points o' th' compass.
    being dead many years, shall after revive, be jointed to the old
    Even on that altar where we swore to you
  Each cheek a river running from a fount

                      [A table brought in. The company sit down]
  ISABELLA. O, pardon me, my lord! It oft falls out,
    I here discard my sickness! Soul of Rome!
  SIR TOBY. Sir, no; his indignation derives itself out of a very
  Fal. But to say I know more harm in him than in myself were to say
  DUCHESS. His nurse! Why she was dead ere thou wast
    And open perils surest answered.
  PISTOL. Let housewifery appear; keep close, I thee command.
  KATHERINA. I know it is the sun that shines so bright.
     I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children,
    No; to the spital go,
    And from Pope Innocent the legate here,
    The loathness to depart would grow. Adieu!
    wives share damnation together. Well; I will take him,
    With comforting repose, and not for us
    The residence of Posthumus; so nigh, at least,
    What ho, Malvolio!
  BOYET. To make Judas hang himself.  
    Into a great estate. When he was poor,  
     not as it hath power, but as it is suffer'd. Come to me, that
  Ros. My lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to
    With dry convulsions, shorten up their sinews
                                          Exeunt PERCY and LORDS
    I am asham'd. O heavens! what have I done?  
    And constant do remain to keep him so.
    If you will mark it.
    May speak unbonneted to as proud a fortune
    He falls to such perusal of my face
    This must not be thus borne: this will break out

             Churl, upon thy eyes I throw
    I will be silent.
    Some god o' th' island. Sitting on a bank,
    Commend thy grievance to my holy prayers,  
    drinking do. A murrain on your monster, and the devil
    And take upon command what help we have
    To run and show their shoulders. Friends, be gone;
    cold, to sleep, to drink; but I tell you, my lord fool, out of
  GLOUCESTER. Plantagenet.
    So, Ilion, fall thou next! Come, Troy, sink down;
    Why, that you are my daughter?
    In noise so rude against me?
Enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM in rotten armour, marvellous ill-favoured
    And kill the bees that yield it with your stings!
  HELENA. Inspired merit so by breath is barr'd.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Ay me, I see the ruin of my house!
  OCTAVIUS. Come, come, the cause. If arguing make us sweat,
  IAGO. She never yet was foolish that was fair,

    This fellow were a king for our wild faction!
  STEPHANO. A friend.
    Away with him; and let her sport herself
  KING EDWARD. Now here a period of tumultuous broils.
    Thou shalt be both the plaintiff and the judge
    The sleepers of the house? Speak, speak!
    And therefore personally I lay my claim
  THISBY. As Shafalus to Procrus, I to you.
  SECOND WATCH. Let's do so. But he sleeps.
    Than this Lavinia, Bassianus' love.
    Left on your right hand brings you to the place.
  CHARLES. Now let us on, my lords, and join our powers,
    Up, cousin, up; your heart is up, I know,
  MALVOLIO. I am not mad, Sir Topas. I say to you this house is dark.  
  PROSPERO. I rather think
  Edg. Ay, two hours together.
  France. Fairest Cordelia, that art most rich, being poor;
  WHITMORE. And so am I: my name is Walter Whitmore.
  LUCENTIO. 'Tis a wonder, by your leave, she will be tam'd so.
  FIRST CITIZEN. As a friend or an enemy?
    One drop of blood drawn from thy country's bosom

     one-trunk-inheriting slave; one that wouldst be a bawd in way of
    For if you should, O, what would come of it!
    But buffets better than a fist of France.
  IAGO.                             He is much changed.
  DESDEMONA. My mother had a maid call'd Barbary;

    Make me but like my thoughts, and I shall prove
    Let heaven and men and devils, let them all,

  SUFFOLK. Well hath your Highness seen into this duke;
    Have taken sanctuary. The tender Prince
    Periods his comfort.
  IAGO. It is Brabantio. General, be advised,
    old men without teeth.
  LORD. Cam'st thou from where they made the stand?
    He would not call me son.


    counterfeit advantages, though true advantage never present
    Is not thy master with him? who, were't so,
    But thankful even for hate that is meant love.
    things like men? Eat, Timon, and abhor them.
    interchangeably.' Come in, come in; I'll go get a fire.
    Seldom he smiles, and smiles in such a sort
    There they stand yet; and modestly I think
  A Hail, Caesar! Read this schedule.
    Hanging the head at Ceres' plenteous load?
  NATHANIEL. [Reads] 'If love make me forsworn, how shall I swear to
     Do as I bid thee, or rather do thy pleasure.
    To fetch a ladder, by the which your love  
    [To SILVIUS] You to a long and well-deserved bed;
    but grace, being the soul of your complexion, shall keep the body
    War with good counsel, set the world at nought;
    'Twas I, indeed, thou promised'st to strike,
ADRIANA. By thee; and this thou didst return from him-
    Acting it many ways. Nay, had I power, I should
  SPEED. I'll warrant you 'tis as well.
                        Enter PAROLLES
    And then return lamenting to my love.
    If you like me, she shall have me and mine.  
  DESDEMONA. Ay, my lord.
    Save that, they say, the wars must make example
  Such as sea-faring men provide for storms;
  DUKE. How should he be made, then?
        Enter HORNER, the Armourer, and his man PETER, guarded

  King. Let's follow, Gertrude.  
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood
    A Roman now adopted happily,
  Rom. I pray thee chide not. She whom I love now
    In me at once. But to the brightest beams
    Popp'd in between th' election and my hopes;
    My lord, so please you, these things further thought on,
    As waggish boys in game themselves forswear,
  ISABELLA. Yes; I do think that you might pardon him.

    You taught me but while-ere?
  ANTONIO. Very like; one of them
  Fal. How? Poor? Look upon his face. What call you rich? Let them
    gold and bounty. I will be cheaters to them both, and they
    you, since I heard of the good lady's death, and that my lord
    Let me be no assistant for a state,  
    Shakes the old beldame earth and topples down
    That the life-weary taker mall fall dead,
    In name of lendings for your Highness' soldiers,
  KING. What was that Henton?
  SATURNINUS. What, madam! be dishonoured openly,
                     22
SCENE 5.
    Affrights thee with a hell of ugly devils!
    I come about my brother.
  ANTONY. But stirr'd by Cleopatra.
     That he hath given away! Now, by my life,
    The choice and master spirits of this age.

  POST. That Edward is escaped from your brother
    And if you can be merry then, I'll say
    fed; and what delight shall she have to look on the devil? When
    And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,
    The day is ours, the bloody dog is dead.
    Be not you spoke with but by mighty suit;

    Did Thisby fearfully o'ertrip the dew,
  DIANA. I have spoke the truth.
  ANGUS. Now does he feel
  ANTONY. Lo thee!                            [Turning from him]

    Of our most sovereign King.
            Alarum. Enter the KING, WARWICK, GLOUCESTER,
     Whose age has charms in it, whose title more,  
    Graves only be men's works and death their gain!
  Oph. Well, God dild you! They say the owl was a baker's daughter.  
    Whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace,
    For 'tis a sign of love; and love to Richard
ADRIANA. Hence, prating peasant! Fetch thy master home.
  PRINCE. Look whe'er the wither'd elder hath not his poll claw'd
    I am sure, sweet Kate, this kindness merits thanks.

    The utmost man of expectation,
    Look through a casement to allure false hearts,
    And he shall signify from time to time
    Fair Portia's counterfeit! What demi-god
    quoits well, and eats conger and fennel, and drinks off candles'
    Came to the altar, where she kneel'd, and saintlike
  Marcellus, Officer.
    But no more deep will I endart mine eye
    And drop the liquor of it in her eyes;
    That happiness and prime can happy call.
  Queen. This is the very coinage of your brain.
  DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, friend to Antony

    Pray so; and, for the ord'ring your affairs,
    Farewell, old Gaunt; thy sometimes brother's wife,
    think on't, Jove, a foul fault! When gods have hot backs
    As in their birth,- wherein they are not guilty,
  Bene. Nay but Beatrice--
    Would I were dead, but that methinks already-  
  SERVANT. One three of them, by their own report, sir, hath danc'd
    EARL OF ESSEX
    Thou diest for it.
  CRESSIDA. Hard to seem won; but I was won, my lord,
    She is too fair, too wise, wisely too fair,
    hath been on the wing of all occasions. But whatsoever I  
    On Holmedon's plains. Of prisoners, Hotspur took
    Doing annoyance to the treacherous feet  
    I pried me through the crevice of a wall,
  IMOGEN. Thanks, good sir.
    I'll prove the lie thou speak'st.  
  Clown. Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
  BAPTISTA. You are welcome, sir.
  CYMBELINE. Thou weep'st and speak'st.
    'resolutely'; his meaning is good.
  CASSIUS. Who's there?
  WIDOW. He that is giddy thinks the world turns round.
  When sometime lofty towers I see down-rased,
  Dog. Write down Prince John a villain. Why, this is flat perjury,
    purpose, confess thyself-
  MALVOLIO. I say this house is as dark as ignorance, though
    Are daily given to ennoble those  
    My tender youth was never yet attaint
  MACBETH. My name's Macbeth.

    But, though I lov'd you well, I woo'd you not;
    For why my bowels cannot hide her woes,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Will they return?
    Nor tongue to tell me who hath martyr'd thee;
    By heaven, it is as proper to our age

    As though she bid me stay by her a week;
  Lear. Do.
    I say, with child, and being great-bellied, and longing, as I
  PAGE. Monsieur Parolles, my lord calls for you.      Exit PAGE  
    What's yet behind that's meet you all should know.
  DAVY. I grant your worship that he is a knave, sir; but yet God
    But when from under this terrestrial ball
    Here are the heads of thy two noble sons;
                     and others of his train
    Bring us where we may rest ourselves and feed.
    My Lord of Westminster, be it your charge
    Stab poinards in our flesh till all were told,
    Above the sense of sense; so sensible
    Why I, that did love Caesar when I struck him,
  CLARENCE. Where art thou, Keeper? Give me a cup of wine.

    To forfeit all your goods, lands, tenements,
    Who once a day with his embossed froth
Enter KING HENRY and GLOUCESTER with the LIEUTENANT, on the walls
    Four feasts are toward.  
    thee none.
  EMILIA. O, are you come, Iago? You have done well,
  GLOUCESTER. Follow the knave, and take this drab away.
    That makes a still-stand, running neither way.
    Catesby hath sounded Hastings in our business,
    And show the reason of our Caesar's death.
    That nothing sung but death to us and ours.
    For you shall hop without my custom, sir.
    There stays a husband to make you a wife.
    That have endur'd shrewd days and nights with us,
    When thou wert king; who, travelling towards York,
  ROSALIND. By this hand, it will not kill a fly. But come, now I
    Cannot impugn you as you do proceed.
    To-day, to-day, unhappy day, too late,
  Glou. Now, Edmund, where's the villain?
                [He plucks it out of his bosom, and reads it]
  SEBASTIAN. Antonio, O my dear Antonio!  

  ARMADO. How hast thou purchased this experience?
  HOSTESS. Farewell; adieu.                               Exeunt
  SHEPHERD. Go to, then.
  Reg. What, did my father's godson seek your life?
    Call'd for the truce of Winchester and Gloucester;
    My noble Lord of Suffolk, or for that

  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. But, Katharine, what was sent to you from fair
    That have afflictions on them, knowing 'tis
    The insulting hand of Douglas over you,
    Shall gild her bridal bed, and make her rich
    Have the disease, and feel't not. How now, boy!
     Well may you prosper!
    And sing it like poor Barbary. Prithee, dispatch.
  EARL OF KENT
    Brave warriors, march amain towards Coventry.         Exeunt
     did the act of darkness with her; swore as many oaths as I spake
    And yet a maiden hath no tongue but thought-
    shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
    To meet anon, upon your approbation.
    Should show so heinous, black, obscene a deed!
    sufferance. I see you are obsequious in your love, and I
    And danger, like an ague, subtly taints
                      But who?
England and France
    'det' when he should pronounce 'debt'- d, e, b, t, not d, e, t.
    I see the lady hath a thing to grant,
    Now set the teeth and stretch the nostril wide;
  EVANS. I most fehemently desire you you will also look that
  CLOWN. I cannot do 't without counters. Let me see: what am I to
    Give me a case to put my visage in.

  CANTERBURY. O, let their bodies follow, my dear liege,  
    Ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name
  ESCALUS. Dost thou detest her therefore?
    That will not be denied your Highness' presence.
    Which had they, what four thron'd ones could have weigh'd  
SCENE 4.

    scratch. I must to the barber's, mounsieur; for methinks I am

  GLOUCESTER. Why, what should you fear?
  IAGO. I warrant thee. Meet me by and by at the citadel. I must
  MENTEITH. What does the tyrant?
    Destroy'd the sweet'st companion that e'er man
    Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
  AUMERLE. If God prevent not, I purpose so.
    Making but reservation of yourselves
    Unshaked of motion; and that I am he,
    By heaven, I had rather coin my heart
    The shard-borne beetle with his drowsy hums
    Farewell, dear mother.

  MOWBRAY. Let not my cold words here accuse my zeal.
    boot, can never amend.                      Exeunt musicians  
  SIR TOBY. Who? Sir Andrew Aguecheek?
    Came like itself, in base and abject routs,
               Newts and blind-worms, do no wrong,
    But shall we wear these glories for a day;
    The men that gave their country liberty.
    The baby figure of the giant mas


  MOTH. [Aside] To be whipt; and yet a better love than my master.
    Thy hopeful service perish too. Good Cromwell,
  GLOUCESTER. Now, lords, my choler being overblown
  GREMIO. Hark, Petruchio; she says she'll see thee hang'd first.
    That hath dismiss'd us from our stewardship;
    And that would woo her. Upon this hint I spake:
    Disguise the holy strength of their command,
    A gentleman, sent from the King, to see you.

  SECOND COMMONER. Truly, Sir, all that I live by is with the awl; I
  ENOBARBUS. [Aside] Well, I could reply:
    devil-porter it no further. I had thought to have let in some of

    I may be negligent, foolish, and fearful:
              To dew her orbs upon the green.
    Whether they live or die.
    And- in good time!- now will we break with him.
  What ship of Epidamnum stays for me?

  CELIA. I would I were invisible, to catch the strong fellow by the
    They are devis'd by you, or else you suffer
    were alive and would deny it, zounds! I would make him eat a
    Am that Belarius whom you sometime banish'd.
    Before the wheels of Phoebus, round about  
    Were he the butcher of my son, he should
  KING EDWARD. It were no less; but yet I'll make a pause.
  KING RICHARD. Stay, madam, I must talk a word with you.
    On silly women or poor passengers.
    Is utterly bereft you; all is lost.
    The citizens are mum, say not a word.
    to the end to crave your assistance.
    They think they are mine; and though train'd up thus meanly
  KING HENRY. Thus stands my state, 'twixt Cade and York distress'd;


    Of wheat, rye, barley, vetches, oats, and pease;
    The purchase made, the fruits are to ensue;
  LEONTES. Didst perceive it?
    Henry the Eighth, life, honour, name, and all

    And greedily devour the treacherous bait.
    Makes me the bolder to salute my king

  FORD. Master Page, as I am a man, there was one convey'd
  O, if thou be'st the same Aegeon, speak,
  KING PHILIP. Now, citizens of Angiers, ope your gates,
    Live thou, I live. With much much more dismay
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    What art thou, fellow?
    As may beseem some well-reputed page.
    And countenanc'd by boys and beggary-

    And full of purpose.
    Thy business?
    Why seek'st thou then to cover with excuse
  OTHELLO. Get me some poison, Iago, this night. I'll not expostulate
    And think it but a minute spent in sport.
    What have we here?                                   [Reads]
  TROILUS. Nothing at all, unless that this were she.
  MAECENAS. She's a most triumphant lady, if report be square to her.
LUCIANA. Ne'er may I look on day nor sleep on night
    But in the midst of this bright-shining day
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  TIMON. Well, sir, I will. Therefore I will, sir, thus:
    friends with thee, Jack. Thou art going to the wars; and whether
    That had before my face murd'red my father-
    Anon comes one with light to ope the tomb;
    To answer mildly; for they are prepar'd
    Omitted, all the voyage of their life
    That some plain man recount their purposes.
  ARIEL. Pardon, master;
    Worthy Cominius, speak.
    Yea, man and birds are fain of climbing high.
  RUGBY. 'Tis ready, sir, here in the porch.
    That draws a sword on thee.
    yet say nothing neither.
  SERVANT. Why should we, in the compass of a pale,
    A forted residence 'gainst the tooth of time
    And what I spake, I spake it to my face.
        Death, in guerdon of her wrongs,
                                               [Pushes him out.]
  OLIVIA. How say you to that, Malvolio?
    Come not thou near me; and when that time comes,  
    And tell me who is victor, York or Warwick?
  FIRST GROOM. More rushes, more rushes!
    Hold fast the mortal sword, and like good men
    Look forward on the journey you shall go.

    thrown into the ford; I have my belly full of ford.
                   And anon, sir,
    Better consider what you have to do
  SECOND WITCH. Thrice and once the hedge-pig whined.
    His brother-in-law, the foolish Mortimer;
    He was my friend, faithful and just to me;
    We must not now displease him.
    Here is return'd my Lord of Westmoreland.
    Our best friends made, our means stretch'd;
    For recordation to my noble husband.
    to the charge of women?
    hit the ground they step on. They say he has been fencer to the
  BASTARD. Thou wert better gall the devil, Salisbury.
  Friar. I am the greatest, able to do least,


    To mangle me with that word 'banished'?
  Hot. This, Douglas? No. I know this face full well.

                            Enter Albany.
    She is delivered, lord; she is delivered.
    Gloucestershire; and, when you come to court, stand my good lord,
  BOYET. I am bound to serve.
    Or that the resolute acting of our blood

    Which, as they kiss, consume. The sweetest honey
    Thrust Talbot with a spear into the back;
  CASSIO. The worser that you give me the addition

    Is't not your trick?
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. O barbarous and bloody spectacle!
    Again possess her corpse, and on this stage,
    'Twere needful I denied it. My affairs
    Knowing how hardly I can brook abuse?
    Worse than a smoky house. I had rather live
      It was a crest ere thou wast born.
    To quit him with this arm? And is't not to be damn'd
    is already in snuff.
     Methinks I should know you, and know this man;
    I with sudden and extemporal speech
                                                          Exeunt
  CASSANDRA. No notes of sally, for the heavens, sweet brother!
    O, sir, your presence is too bold and peremptory,
    which is in the keeping of Paulina- a piece many years in doing

  NESTOR. Let this be granted, and Achilles' horse
    Hourly afflict. Merely, thou art Death's fool;
  GLOUCESTER. What, marry, may she? Marry with a king,
  Ben. Madam, an hour before the worshipp'd sun
  Each changing place with that which goes before,
    'Tis not so sweet now as it was before.
    For me, the ransom of my bold attempt
  Wor. I prithee tell me, doth he keep his bed?
      Duke of Burgundy.
    Adieu, adieu, adieu! Remember me.                      Exit.  
Sicilia. The palace of LEONTES
  MESSENGER. I have done my duty.
    Until the Queen his mistress bury it.                   Exit
    Which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me.
    I have trod a measure; I have flatt'red a lady; I have been
    Since night you lov'd me; yet since night you left me.
  Glou. I am sorry for thee, friend. 'Tis the Duke's pleasure,  
  Or durst inhabit on a living brow:
                   London. The Temple garden
  Three beauteous springs to yellow autumn turned,
    Can sound his state in safety. Caphis, ho!
  FIRST LORD. How do you? What's the news?
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
                                     Exit [one] with Gloucester.
    And may that thought, when I imagine ill
  Who, but for staying on our controversy,
    ambitious for poor knaves' caps and legs; you wear out a good
  Which is not mixed with seconds, knows no art,
    That age, ache, penury, and imprisonment,
SCENE IV.
  SIR JOHN SOMERVILLE                TUTOR, to Rutland  
    And if King Edward be as true and just
ACT II. SCENE I.
  KEEPER. I will, my lord. God give your Grace good rest.
    it is not in the court, it is tedious. As it is a spare life,
  CAPHIS. I will, sir.
    I'll leave you to confer of home affairs;
    And some such strange bull leap'd your father's cow
    Yearly three thousand pounds, which by thee lately
    Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives.
    Shortcake upon Allhallowmas last, a fortnight afore
  KING HENRY. My brother Gloucester's voice? Ay;
    While you perform your antic round,
    Remove from her the means of all annoyance,
  PETRUCHIO. Verona, for a while I take my leave,

    And there the little souls of Edward's children
    To whom you swore a secret pilgrimage,
    I cannot justify whom the law condemns.
  APEMANTUS. If Timon stay at home. You three serve three usurers?
Enter the PRINCESS, MARIA, KATHARINE, and ROSALINE

    Which in his dearest need will fly from him.
    And, for the time shall not seem tedious,
  HOLOFERNES. Twice-sod simplicity, bis coctus!
    base, rascally, cheating, lack-linen mate! Away, you mouldy
    And consecrate commotion's bitter edge?

     That these hot tears, which break from me perforce,
  And found such fair assistance in my verse,
    Die; perish. Might but my bending down
    meeting, give him a show of comfort in his suit, and lead
  Pol. I will say so.                                      Exit.
    Or it hath drawn me rather. But 'tis gone.
  There is your money that I had to keep.
  ANTONIO. I must entreat of you some of that money.
    Where I may think the remnant of my thoughts
    Fair Helena in fancy following me.  
    And pass'd him unelected.
  SECOND LORD. Art not acquainted with him? Knows he not thy voice?
    To hear the sea-maid's music.
    The monstrous bulk of this ingratitude
  Mort. These promises are fair, the parties sure,
    the right-hand; I will but look upon the hedge, and follow you.

    And trouble not the peace.
  BERTRAM. I think she has. Certain it is I lik'd her,
    If thou neglect'st, or dost unwillingly

    Hark, slave, it is but this:
  BOLINGBROKE. [Reads] 'First of the king: what shall of him become?'  
  QUEEN. Be brief, I pray you.
  POET. How now, philosopher!  
 BEROWNE. Neither of either; I remit both twain.
    To do in these fierce vanities? I wonder
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  COSTARD, a clown
    not me'? Indeed your 'O Lord, sir!' is very sequent to your
    Breathe foul contagious darkness in the air.
    Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
    Have skipp'd from sixteen years of age to sixty,
    Macbeth doth come.
                                                     [He faints]
    Upon his own report, and I believe it:
                                                Prepare to play.
    Deserves your pity?

    Laugh at me, make their pastime at my sorrow.
    How they are stain'd, like meadows yet not dry
    That, like the stately Phoebe 'mongst her nymphs,
  TRANIO. Husht, master! Here's some good pastime toward;
                     69
    Of this discourse we more will hear anon.
    Most often, do so near the bottom run
    I would my valiant master would destroy thee.
    Whole as the marble, founded as the rock,
  BOYET. They do, they do, and are apparell'd thus,
    To rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead.
  IAGO. Marry, to- Come, captain, will you go?
    My services, which I have done the signiory,
    That when he speaks not like a citizen,  
    Unless you be possess'd with devilish spirits
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  Bene. If you use them, Margaret, you must put in the pikes with a
    And triumph, Henry, in thy day of doom.  

    Is the young Dauphin every way complete-
  LUCILIUS. Safe, Antony, Brutus is safe enough.
    For never henceforth shall I joy again;
    Is yet to name the winner. Fare you well.
    With his face backward. In humane gentleness,
    Strive to speak big, and clap their female joints
    I thought to crush him in an equal force,
    Drew Priam's curtain in the dead of night
  ELINOR. My blessing go with thee!
    And yet I know not- thou didst hate her deadly,
    The noble change that I have purposed!
  When I am dull with care and melancholy,
    And, ere they be dismiss'd, let them march by.
    Nor cease to be an arrogant controller,
  That's for thy self to breed another thee,
  Wouldst thou not spit at me and spurn at me,
Then comes, dropping after all, APEMANTUS, discontentedly, like himself
    Where Juliet lives; and every cat and dog
    Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
    Esteem as foil wherein thou art to set
     With plumed helm thy state begins to threat,
    How, Simple! Where have you been? I must wait on
    Because I love you, I will let you know.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
                     Enter Borachio and Conrade.

    But is four Volsces? None of you but is
    Fetch the will hither, and we shall determine
  SPEED. Now you have taken the pains to set it together, take it for
    Then slip I from her bum, down topples she,
  CRIER. Katharine Queen of England, &c.
  JAQUES. Is not this a rare fellow, my lord?
  SCOUT. The English army, that divided was  
    He bow'd his nature, never known before
  QUINCE. Robin Starveling, you must play Thisby's mother.
  FLUELLEN. Your Majesty says very true; if your Majesties is  
  PROSPERO. I did say so,
     And bids what will take all.
    Unwillingly to school. And then the lover,
                                    Exeunt FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
    Shall stand sore charged for the wasteful vengeance
  FLUELLEN. Much good do you, scald knave, heartily. Nay, pray you

    Whether a maid so tender, fair, and happy,
  KING. What say'st thou, ha?

  KING EDWARD. Seize on the shame-fac'd Henry, bear him hence;
    By heaven, I will ne'er come in your bed
    Be hang'd up for example at their doors.
    Are you so fond of your young prince as we  
    Under these windows white and azure, lac'd

  CAMILLO. I willingly obey your command.
    We with our stately presence glorify,
  TROILUS. What's aught but as 'tis valued?
  PROTEUS. That I may compass yours.
    And proofs as clear as founts in July when
  CYMBELINE. If this be so, the gods do mean to strike me
ACT III. SCENE 1.
  BIANCA. O my dear Cassio, my sweet Cassio! O Cassio, Cassio,
    And drink it off, and if you had the strength
    Had his great name profaned with their scorns
  Kent. This is not altogether fool, my lord.
    Your knees to them, not arms, must help. Alack,
  A CRIER
    Or will not else thy craft so quickly grow
The park
  ROSS. They did so, to the amazement of mine eyes

    Would turn their own perfection to abuse
    Of this new sect? Ye are not sound.
    For all the frosty nights that I have watch'd,
  QUEEN. Ah, were the Duke of Suffolk now alive,
    Stern Falconbridge commands the narrow seas;
    For thou hast made the happy earth thy hell
              Enter HASTINGS, young YORK, and the CARDINAL
    I knit my handkerchief about your brows-

    Of our own power. What think you of it?
  FRENCH SOLDIER. O, prenez misericorde; ayez pitie de moi!
    Layest thou thy leaden mace upon my boy
  ENOBARBUS. Ay, are you thereabouts?

    aboard the Prince; told him I heard them talk of a fardel and I
  CORIOLANUS. The gods begin to mock me. I, that now

    For this is from the present- how you take
    How long continued; and what stock he springs of-
                 BUCKINGHAM with guard, and break in
    Lavinia will I make my emperess,
    Thy lips, those kissing cherries, tempting grow!
    As Ariachne's broken woof to enter.
    How sometimes nature will betray its folly,
    Indeed, 'tis true that Henry told me of;
      Re-enter YORK, with KING RICHARD, and OFFICERS
    The mother to a hopeful prince- here standing
    Thy meekness saint-like, wife-like government,
  Rom. I doubt it not; and all these woes shall serve  
    Think us no churls, nor measure our good minds  
  HOSTESS. By this heavenly ground I tread on, I must be fain to pawn
    Should chase us with my father, pow'r no jot
    canst love me for this, take me; if not, to say to thee that I
    To make a faithless error in your cars;
    Yet I do find it so; for, to be plain,

    I have broke your hest to say so!
    A deed of slander with thy fatal hand
    Could send such message to their sovereign;
    We shall be late else; which I would not be,
    Say you the like to him?
    Even to Augustus' throne.
    He wants the natural touch; for the poor wren,
     Turn out that eyeless villain. Throw this slave
                                             Exeunt all but THERSITES
  LORD. I'll send my prayers with him.

    How often hast thou waited at my cup,
    But there's more in me than thou understand'st.
    Their cold intent, tenour, and substance, thus:
  AUTOLYCUS. Sweet sir, much better than I was; I can stand and walk.
    And I'll be sworn you would believe my saying,
              Enter GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and DORSET
                     76  
    And send him word by me which way you go.
    That do acknowledge Caesar, should I find them
  GRUMIO. Where is he?
Enter the JUDGES, TRIBUNES, and SENATORS, with TITUS' two sons
  CARDINAL. My Lord of York, try what your fortune is.

    What's here?  [Reads]  'I have, upon especial cause,
    Glad that you thus continue your resolve
    wit, manners, nor honesty, but to gabble like tinkers at this
    By virtue of that ring I take my cause
  SECOND SENATOR. Nor are they living
  GLOUCESTER. This is the fruits of rashness. Mark'd you not
    Thy news?

    I know not what 'twas but distraction.
    For taking bribes here of the Sardians,
    Mov'd with remorse of these outrageous broils,
    I thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated
  GONZALO, an honest old counsellor
  GLOUCESTER. Catesby, o'erlook the walls.
    island.
  Whilst that this shadow doth such substance give,
  SHEPHERD. To th' palace, an it like your worship.
  MUSTARDSEED. What's your will?
    Knew you not Pompey? Many a time and oft
    The boy is foolish, and I fear not him.
    Which seem'd to tell them his remembrance lay

  FENTON. So shall I evermore be bound to thee;
    As it were doomsday.

                   Like to the old Vice,
    I swear to thee by Cupid's strongest bow,  
    whipping. You would answer very well to a whipping, if you were
    Ill-weav'd ambition, how much art thou shrunk!
    She is a theme of honour and renown,
    that Falstaff is there. I will go.
  SPEED. She that your worship loves?
    In equal scale weighing delight and dole,
    Lay down my soul at stake. If you think other,
    Anon, from thy insulting tyranny,

  AGUECHEEK. I have't in my nose too.
          My shroud of white, stuck all with yew,
                         and ATTENDANTS

    The royal occupation! Thou shouldst see
    As cognizance of my blood-drinking hate,

  Abr. Quarrel, sir? No, sir.

  KING RICHARD. The devil take Henry of Lancaster and thee!
    Should, if a coward hear her speak these words,
    Arming to answer in a night alarm.'
  SHALLOW. Ha, ha, ha! most excellent, i' faith! Things that are
    He lends out money gratis, and brings down
     Upon the British party. O, untimely death! Death!
    There Minotaurs and ugly treasons lurk.
    Is pale cold cowardice in noble breasts.
  SECOND LORD. That approaches apace. I would gladly have him see his
    Your praises are too large. But that your youth,
                                                    Exit CATESBY
  Vicious, ungentle, foolish, blunt, unkind;
    When all that is within him does condemn
    leap me over this stool and run away.
    Are of consent and sufferance in this.
  ALCIBIADES. Pardon him, sweet Timandra, for his wits
                                                        tempest.

  TROILUS. And shall, albeit sweet music issues thence.
    thousand pound this day morning.
    That doth my life besiege. Farewell, young lords;
    Of my young playfellow.  
    Until a power be rais'd to put them down.
  BASSANIO. For me, three thousand ducats.  
    When man's worst sin is he does too much good!
    Lo you, here she comes! This is her very guise, and, upon my
    And made me almost yield upon my knees.
    Worse than a promise-breaker.
  I will not harbour in this town to-night.
    And Cassio kill'd?
    stars.
  TROILUS. O, sir, to such as boasting show their scars
  CLEOPATRA. Antony
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. [Within] Mome, malt-horse, capon, coxcomb, idiot, patch!
    a hole.
    The Bishop will be overborne by thee.
  Corn. Peace, sirrah!
  Bora. Not so neither. But know that I have to-night wooed Margaret,
  King. Go seek him there. [To Attendants.]
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  RUGBY. 'Tis past the hour, sir, that Sir Hugh promis'd to
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
      Enter a CENTURION and his company; ENOBARBUS follows
  SHEPHERD. 'Tis true, I gave a noble to the priest
    I'll kill thee everywhere, yea, o'er and o'er.
LUCIANA. First he denied you had in him no right.
    Applauding our approach.                              Exeunt
  ALEXAS. Here, at your service. My lord approaches.
  SILVIA. Servant, you are sad.
    Of the Duke's confessor, John de la Car,
    body are as well drawn as his; no less young, more strong, not
  GREY, SCROOP. To which we all appeal.
    That the magnifico is much beloved,
    as Queen, Lennox, Ross, Lords, Ladies, and Attendants.
    His spell in that is out; the King hath found
  CLOWN. From heaven! Alas, sir, I never came there. God forbid I
    For he that brought them, in the very heat

      those customs,
  AJAX. Mistress Thersites!
    For, my good liege, she is so idly king'd,
    In the same time 'tis made? I will not.
    And the remainder mourning over them,
  SOMERSET. Your private grudge, my Lord of York, will out,
  DEMETRIUS. Advise thee, Aaron, what is to be done,
    minister occasion to these gentlemen, who are of such
  SEBASTIAN. What a strange drowsiness possesses them!
    I have forsworn.
    He speaks by leave and by permission,  
    Which Salique land the French unjustly gloze
    And where thou now exacts the penalty,
  EMILIA. What handkerchief?
    And thus a while the fit will work on him.
  O know sweet love I always write of you,
     That she would soon be here.
      Then the two that held the garland deliver the
    and in the view of the shepherd; so that all the instruments
    But yet be wary in thy studious care.
    Nay, then she must needs come.
  FALSTAFF. Very well, my lord, very well. Rather an't please you, it
     Let me, if not by birth, have lands by wit;

   MUTIUS, the sons of ANDRONICUS, with their swords bloody
  SHEPHERD. We may live, son, to shed many more.
    For Jesu Christ in glorious Christian field,
    I have retir'd me to a wasteful cock
                       Enter Douglas.
    Strike off his head.
    And well consider of them. Make good speed.        Exit page

    Their backward course, bearing with frank appearance
  MENENIUS. Now the good gods forbid
  ANTONY. He will not fight with me, Domitius?
  SLENDER. Ay, or else I would I might be hang'd, la!
   Nor never Hydra-headed wilfulnes
    Shall be well winged with our chiefest horse.
    they are maids, but the sky changes when they are wives. I will
    And this is Geffrey's. In the name of God,
                                   Exeunt [Dogberry and Verges].
    King Manchus of Arabia; King of Pont;
    But hateful docks, rough thistles, kecksies, burs,
    foot, and a body, though they be not to be talk'd on, yet they
  ESCALUS. Good even, good father.
    Yet blessing on his heart that gives it me!
    To God, his sovereign, and to him disloyal,

    Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
    And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
    throw none away; the skin is good for your broken coxcomb. When
    Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murther'?

  KING. Find him, and bring him hither.        Exit an ATTENDANT
    I myself fight not once in forty year.                Exeunt
    Mine were the very cipher of a function,
    Now am I like that proud insulting ship
    And tell the legions 'I can never win
    be lopp'd branches which, being dead many years, shall
    Thy skipping spirit; lest through thy wild behaviour
    me off when I come on? How then? Can honor set to a leg? No. Or
    Uncle, give me your hands; nay, dry your eyes:
    To add unto his sickness? No, my Brutus,
    The weary way hath made you melancholy.
    Marry, I would not do such a thing for a joint-ring, nor for
  WILLIAMS. Your Majesty came not like yourself: you appear'd to me
    In blood of those that had encount'red him.
    Men into such strange mysteries?
    men as long as I have an eye to make difference of men's
    As if he had but prov'd an argument.
  Glou. My dear lord,
  LORDS. You are most welcome home.
                            ATTENDANTS
    Next time I'll keep my dreams unto myself
    One of them you shall be.
  FIRST LORD. Stand you? You have land enough of your own; but he
    When miracles have by the greatest been denied.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    All other doubts, by time let them be clear'd:
    Without a tongue, using conceit alone,
    If we will keep in favour with the King,
    in Galen; it is a kind of deafness.
    To nature none more bound; his training such
    Are capable of this ambition,
    I cannot blame his conscience.
    And these unseasoned hours perforce must ad

    The press of boats or pride. A piece of work
    More venturous or desperate than this.
  PAROLLES. A drum now of the enemy's!  
    show you the heart of my message.
    For the wide world's revenue.
    So I were out of prison and kept sheep,
         like a cook, placing the dishes, and LAVINIA
    To make it gracious. For my private part,
    And more such days as these to us befall!             Exeunt


     Who with best meaning have incurr'd the worst.
    If it be proved against an alien
    France were no place for Henry's warriors;
  QUEEN. Son, I say, follow the King.
                     Enter Juliet again, [above].
           To help him of his blindness;
    Sits not so easy on me as you think.
    Thine, as he vow'd to thee in thine ear,
    That run i' th' clock's behalf. But this is fool'ry.
    To do some fatal execution?
    But if you frown upon this proffer'd peace,
    Is Rosaline, that thou didst love so dear,

    That bear the shapes of men, how have you run
    The boy gives warning something doth approach.

    and blind. Can you blame her, then, being a maid yet ros'd over

               Nor spell nor charm
    'Tis as I should entreat you wear your gloves,
  CLOWN. Good Sir Toby!
    And have with holy bell been knoll'd to church,
    I will not stay behind.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Let me give humble thanks for all at once.
     I ask'd his blessing, and from first to last
[Striking him]
  CLAUDIO. My lord?
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  Benvolio, nephew to Montague, and friend to Romeo
    Though his false finger have profan'd the ring,  
    Which aptly sings the good.
    Revolt our subjects? That we cannot mend;
    I think you are happy in this second match,
    Of double-fatal yew against thy state;
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  ARIEL. Presently?
    And haste her to the purpose.
London. The palace
  SECOND SENATOR. At all times alike
    As well at London Bridge as at the Tower?
    He is but outside; these pencill'd figures are
    Good Antony, your hand.
  LUCIUS. Can the son's eye behold his father bleed?
     Thy fifty yet doth double five-and-twenty,
  CLOTEN. We do.
  MARCIUS. O! let me clip ye
    Lords
  HELENA. In everything I wait upon his will.
  WIFE. Ay indeed was he.
    And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air
  Fool. Marry, here's grace and a codpiece; that's a wise man and a

    If not, shun me, and I will spare your haunts.
  PANDARUS. You are such another!
    you are partly a bawd, Pompey, howsoever you colour it in being a
  EXETER. 'Tis wonderful!
    And shape of likelihood the news was told;
    How she opposes her against my will.
    With the attainder of his slanderous lips.
    For I have ever verified my friends-
    If one could match you. The scrimers of their nation
    father nor to me, to go about to make me the King's
  Doug. The Lord of Stafford dear to-day hath bought
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Here comes my servant Travers, whom I sent
  ENOBARBUS. Sir?
    That there's no hop'd-for mercy with the brothers  
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. Among the crowds i' th' Abbey, where a finger
    great natural that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in
    reputation is with the Duke, what his valour, honesty, expertness
    brought to Leonato's. I will go before and show him their
    Whereto I have invited many a guest,
  WIDOW. Gentle madam,
  We being strangers here, how dar'st thou trust
    Away, before! conduct me to the King;
    For they succeed on you. To you, Lord Governor,
    For up and down she doth resemble thee.
  ANTONIO. Ay, sir; where lies that? If 'twere a kibe,
    Have at thee, coward!                            They fight.
    My fame is shrewdly gor'd.
    Look not upon me, for thine eyes are wounding;
  Jul. As much to him, else is his thanks too much.
  MENENIUS. I tell you, friends, most charitable care  
    Else might I think that Clarence, Edward's brother,
    Let two more summers wither in their pride
  LAUNCE. That's as much as to say 'bastard virtues'; that indeed
    To stride a limit.  
    Teach thou this sorrow how to make me die;

    Though I confess, on base and ground enough,
    Prithee, unpin me- have grace and favor in them.
    Of that proud man that did usurp his back?
    You saw one here in court could witness it.
The Forest of Arden
  SOLDIER. Mock not, Enobarbus.
    Needs must you lay your heart at his dispose,
     Inform her full of my particular fear,
    Come, boy, and go with me; thy sight is young,
 ELY. I'll wait upon you, and I long to hear it.          Exeunt
    All the commerce that you have had with Troy
  THESEUS. I pray you all, stand up.
    Beneath the fall I have. [To SELEUCUS] Prithee go hence;
    Our care and pity is so much upon you
  ALL. God save your Majesty!
    as thou and Falstaff for obduracy and persistency: let the end
  MENENIUS. Our very priests must become mockers, if they shall
    twenty, or that youth would sleep out the rest; for there is
  Methinks your maw, like mine, should be your clock,
    This widow lady? In her right we came;
     the speed of his rage goes slower; and, as I say, retire with me
    The apparition comes. I knew your father.
    To call young Claudio to a reckoning for it.
  LEGATE. I will attend upon your lordship's leisure.
    But give me leave to try success, I'd venture
  Glou. Know'st thou the way to Dover?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Come, come, go in with me. 'Tis with my mind
  NESTOR. Now, Ulysses, I begin to relish thy advice;
  CYMBELINE. I stand on fire.
    With principalities.
A house in Rome. Antony, Octavius, and Lepidus, seated at a table.
    Uncle, farewell; and, cousin, adieu;
    And pen her up.
    That drug-damn'd Italy hath out-craftied him,

    monachum'; that's as much to say as I wear not motley in my
  ANGELO. Thus wisdom wishes to appear most bright
  ALL. Show his eyes, and grieve his heart;
Exit.
  KING. How now! What is in you? Why dost thou tear it?
    No way to fly, nor strength to hold out flight.
    You that way: we this way.                            Exeunt

    Come on, come on; where is your boar-spear, man?


  Mark how with my neglect I do dispense.

  LAFEU. So you were a knave at his service, indeed.
    the stair, into the lobby.
    mayst.
    And never will I undertake the thing
    you for yourselves?
  SLENDER. Dispatch'd! I'll make the best in Gloucestershire  
  DOLABELLA. Proculeius,
    And when the dusky sky began to rob  
    But to those men that sought him sweet as summer.
    Be not dismay'd, for succour is at hand.
    Tell him, myself, the Mayor and Aldermen,
         Is she kind as she is fair?

    Neighbour, this is a gift very grateful, I am sure of it. To

  PROTEUS. In love,

A public place
    With walking once about the quadrangle,

  GREEN -     "      "   "     "
   [Knock]


    Since I heard thence; these are the words- I think
    melancholy?
  COSTARD. I am more bound to you than your fellows, for they are but
    Give me their bodies, that I may bear them hence  
    While all is shar'd and all is borne away,
  IACHIMO. I never saw him sad.
    May reasonably die, and never rise  
    bone-ache! for that, methinks, is the curse depending on those

    Perform't, or else we damn thee.'
  SILVIUS. O dear Phebe,
    Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
    Who died and was Fidele. What think you?
    all the foul terrors in dark-seated hell-
     Your sister is the better soldier.
    more than he's worth to season.
  PROSPERO. Before the time be out? No more!
    Although, my lord, I know my noble aunt
    Which till this time my tongue did ne'er pronounce,
    Horace says in his- What, my soul, verses?
    Fordo it own life. 'Twas of some estate.
    Henceforth I charge you, as you love our favour,
    Be he the fire, I'll be the yielding water;
    As will a chestnut in a fariner's fire?
    man is twice a child.
    Peace with his soul, heaven, if it be thy will!         Exit  
by William Shakespeare
  FIRST CITIZEN. O most bloody sight!
    say they be fled. Germans are honest men.
    No more but plain and bluntly 'To the King!'
Sicilia. The palace of LEONTES
      Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo! his sword,
    You have receiv'd your griefs; nor are they such
    There is no power in the tongue of man
  MRS. FORD. He's a-birding, sweet Sir John.
    caparison'd like a man, I have a doublet and hose in my
    Shall tithe or toll in our dominions;
    That I have Positively said ''Tis so,'

    That living wrought me such exceeding trouble.
    As honor, love, obedience, troops of friends,

    Thou shouldst have better pleas'd me with this deed,  
  Me from my self thy cruel eye hath taken,
  KING. And Don Armado shall be your keeper.
    News have I that my Nell is dead i' th' spital
    Whipp'd and tormented and- God-den, good fellow.
                                                   Exit HASTINGS
  ANTIGONUS. Thou art perfect then our ship hath touch'd upon
    her before me, commend me.
  FLAMINIUS. May these add to the number that may scald thee!
A Room in Leonato's house.
    Marry, would the word 'farewell' have length'ned hours  
  ROSS. Gentlemen, rise; his Highness is well.
    Presence majestical would put him out;
  LUCENTIO. All but the bass.
  ENOBARBUS. This is old. What is the success?
    That swiftest wing of recompense is slow
    And reason to my love is liable.
    The soil's fertility from wholesome flowers.
    This liberty is all that I request-
  HERMIA. Now I but chide, but I should use thee worse,
  CASCA. You pull'd me by the cloak; would you speak with me?
    Are at the Duke's already. You have been hotly call'd for,
    And still keep eyes upon her. So good night.
    To prove whose blood is reddest, his or mine.
  FAIRY QUEEN. Corrupt, corrupt, and tainted in desire!
  FABIAN. Very brief, and to exceeding good sense- less.
    only emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else to fat us, and
    your good hand, give me your worship's good hand. By my troth,  
    Is bound in shallows and in miseries.

  Ham. What, ho, Horatio!
                                   Exit RATCLIFF. RICHARD sleeps
  PRINCE. How now! Rain within doors, and none abroad!
    And yet dear too, because I bought mine own.
                         Enter Douglas.
  JULIA. Not a whit, when it jars so.
    And safely brought to Dover; where inshipp'd,
  CLEOPATRA. Is he married?
    To have me filch it?
    was brought to bed of twenty money-bags at a burden, and how she
  DEMETRIUS. This is a witness that I am thy son.
    That show of such an exercise may colour
    When love begins to sicken and decay
    the stuffing--well, we are all mortal.
    If thou turn back and my loud crying still.
    You that did void your rheum upon my beard
  SICINIUS. Why stay we to be baited

    Is this an hour for temporal affairs, ha?
    deserves it; for if there be a kind woman in Windsor, she  
     And from some knowledge and assurance offer
    With that thou else call'st thine. If thou refuse,
    Your pens to lances, and your tongue divine
    With her that hateth thee and hates us all-
    Your discontenting father strive to qualify,
    Due to some single breast?
    Inconstancy falls off ere it begins.
    Ta'en off by poison.
  CLAUDIO. Nor I, my lord.
    maids. It was thought she was a woman, and was turn'd into a cold
  PROSPERO. Thou dost; and think'st it much to tread the ooze

  I see my son Antipholus, and Dromio.
    certain, or forswear to wear iron about you.

    both my plate and the tapestry of my dining-chambers.
  QUICKLY. Well, she laments, sir, for it, that it would yearn

  KING EDWARD. Away, I say; I charge ye bear her hence.
    Even with the bloody payment of your deaths.
    That so she died; for her physician tells me
    Were, as he says, not with such strength denied
    To have her honour true than your suspicion,
    Cut off the sequence of posterity,
    First hand me. On mine own accord I'll off;
  ARMADO. Sweet Lord Longaville, rein thy tongue.

    Would, Polydore, thou hadst not done't! though valour
    Who, stuck and spangled with your flatteries,

  SHYLOCK. 'Tis very true. O wise and upright judge,
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. And he will bless that cross with other beating;
    And those thy fears might have wrought fears in me.
    A second hope as fairly built as Hector.

  FALSTAFF. As I am a gentleman! Come, no more words of it.
    government.
    performance of your promises.
    For, by this ring, the doctor lay with me.
     With every gale and vary of their masters,
    But with good will. To show our simple skill,
    'Tis not his new-made bride shall succour him;
    Com'st thou because the anointed King is hence?
    Was I to take this drunkard for a god,
                                               [Seizing LAVINIA]
    And he shall spend mine honour with his shame,
    Though less than yours in past, must o'ertop yours;
  FIRST SENATOR. Call Coriolanus.
  John. Not I, my lord, unless I did bleed too.
  Reg. That's as we list to grace him.
    Even in the lovely garnish of a boy.
  Unless it be by inspiration?
    Gonzago'?
    To-day shalt thou behold a subject die
  Guil. Happy in that we are not over-happy.
  COSTARD. In manner and form following, sir; all those three: I was
  Queen. How now, Ophelia?
  FALSTAFF. My lord, I beseech you, give me leave to go through
    Damn'd as thou art, thou hast enchanted her,
    A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
    That hid the worse and show'd the better face.  
  AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  If the springe hold, the cock's mine.
    Whose settled visage and deliberate word
    Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Reproach and dissolution hangeth over him.
    utter what is like thee!- you tailor's yard, you sheath, you
  WIDOW. Marry, hang you!
  POMPEY. Well, I know not
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
1593
    That they had gather'd a wise council to them
    I fear, for ever. Milan and Naples have
    Speaks to atone you.
  APEMANTUS. Art not a poet?
  GOWER. Sir John Falstaff.
    Exeunt
  GRUMIO. E'en at hand, alighted by this; and therefore be not-
    Sir Smile, his neighbour. Nay, there's comfort in't,
  Lords, Attendants, etc.
    And in her bosom I'll unclasp my heart
  King. Well, we shall sift him.

  BARDOLPH. Sir, a word with you. I have three pound to free Mouldy
  Ham. We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a
    Than some whose tailors are as dear as yours
    There, take thou that till thou bring better news.
    That they have overborne their continents.
    In honour honesty, the tract of ev'rything
  KING HENRY. 'Tis good for men to love their present pains
    Many an English ditty lovely well,
  GOWER. The Duke of Gloucester, to whom the order of the siege is
     bless thee, master!
    Doctor, your service for this time is ended;
    As I perceive she does. There's something in't
    Of the old, feeble, and day-wearied sun,
    Guard her till Caesar come.                             Exit
  WOLSEY.  [Aside]  What should this mean?
    And, when they stand against you, may they fall
  KING HENRY. I dare say you love him not so ill to wish him here
    With one that I have bred? The gods! It smites me
    By my so potent art. But this rough magic
    No bourn 'twixt his and mine; yet were it true
    we are less afraid to be drown'd than thou art.
    Wouldst thou have laugh'd had I come coffin'd home,
  BASSANIO. Our feast shall be much honoured in your marriage.

  NORFOLK. We must both give and take, my loving lord.
    And, for the morning now is something worn,
  MENENIUS. See you yond coign o' th' Capitol, yond cornerstone?
    For I am stifled with this smell of sin.
  Lear. Is this well spoken?
  GHOST.  [To RICHARD]  Richard, thy wife, that wretched  
    Within a loathsome dungeon, there to pine,
  FIRST OUTLAW. Fellows, stand fast; I see a passenger.
    I swear by that which I will lose for thee
    The trumpet to the cannoneer without,  
  With shifting change as is false women's fashion,
    Worthy to be a rebel, for to that
    I was, unhandsome warrior as I am,
    And then I'll speak a little.
    had you rather lead mine eyes, or eye your master's heels?
    In what I farther shall intend to do,

           As if I had never been such.
  TITUS. Come, Lucius, come; stay not to talk with them.     Exeunt
  FIRST SERVING-MAN. Ay, and the very parings of our nails
  Jul. How cam'st thou hither, tell me, and wherefore?
  GRATIANO. Was not that letter from fair Jessica?
    Unmeritable shuns your high request.
  GUIDERIUS. Fear not slander, censure rash;
    And yet 'not proud'? Mistress minion you,
    Throng our large temples with the shows of peace,
  Hot. Lord Douglas, go you and tell him so.  

  MACBETH. Thou art the best o' the cut-throats! Yet he's good
    it to him again; then he put it by again. But, to my thinking, he

  Bene. Sir, sir, be patient.
    Lies at my mercy all mine enemies.
    All turn'd to heresy? Away, away,

  GREY. In that you brook it ill, it makes him worse;
  CLOWN. O Lord, sir!-There's a simple putting off. More, more, a
    one of my rank!
  DUMAIN. A gilt nutmeg.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
London. Ely House
  DAUPHIN. My Lord of Orleans and my Lord High Constable, you talk of
  LUCIUS. Servilius? You are kindly met, sir. Fare thee well; commend
  DIOMEDES. Most absolute lord,
    And be received for the Emperor's heir
    I'll bring you to your ship, and so to Naples,  
    Pray you be round with him.
    Carry this mad knave to the gaol. Father Baptista, I charge you
    Another spread on's breast, mounting his eyes,
    Is Fulvia's death.
    And hear, I think, the very latest counsel
  SPEED. 'Twere good you knock'd him.                       Exit
    They told me, here, at dead time of the night,
    hear me, and let this Count kill me. I have deceived even your
SCENE:
  SALISBURY. Therefore, to be possess'd with double pomp,
  CHIEF JUSTICE. I have heard better news.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Marry, so it doth appear
    Which my lord paid for be of any power
  Laer. My lord, I'll hit him now.
    Except this city now by us besieg'd-
    You break no privilege nor charter there.
  THURIO. Therefore, as you unwind her love from him,
  ANTONIO. Tell me, Panthino, what sad talk was that

  PEMBROKE. When workmen strive to do better than well,
  And stretched metre of an antique song.

  BOYET. So please your Grace, the packet is not come,
  SOLDIER. I'll be so bold to take what they have left.
    The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
    The flatness of my misery; yet with eyes
                                                   [Strikes him]
    As one dead in the bottom of a tomb.
  quarters, that's an ell and three quarters, will not measure
    sir, with such volubility that you would think truth were a fool.
    Whose circling shadows kings have sought to sleep in,
  EMILIA. But jealous souls will not be answer'd so;  
    Were't not affection chains thy tender days
    Of equal friendship and proceeding. Alas, sir,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  MESSENGER. Nay, then I'll run.
    Good uncle, let this end where it begun;
    Not half so big as a round little worm
    And leads me to your eyes, where I o'erlook  
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    protest, the schoolmaster is exceeding fantastical; too too vain,
    grandam. Fare thee well.
    Where-after I have solemnly interr'd  
                Enter Desdemona, Iago, and Attendants.
    What, are we cuckolds ere we have deserv'd it?
  Fool. We'll set thee to school to an ant, to teach thee there's no
  PANDARUS. What a pair of spectacles is here! Let me embrace too. 'O
    [Aside]  Now, what a thing it is to be an ass!
    He would not take it. Never did I know
    when Hector has knock'd out his brains I know not; but, I am sure,
  PETRUCHIO. Thy gown? Why, ay. Come, tailor, let us see't.
    Thou shouldst a husband take by my consent,
                                               [Alarum afar off]
    Since you can cog, I'll play no more with you.
    You tallow-face!
  AGUECHEEK. O, if I thought that, I'd beat him like a dog.
  John. If it please you. Yet Count Claudio may hear, for what I
                                                         Exeunt.
                To each word a warbling note;
    And, in his full and ripened years, himself,
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Ah, who shall hinder me to wail and
    Helen. An she were not kin to me, she would be as fair a Friday
Enter, from one side, MOWBRAY, attended; afterwards, the ARCHBISHOP,
    Writ in my cousin's hand, stol'n from her pocket,
    out his master's undoing. To say nothing, to do nothing, to know
  KING RICHARD. Thou chid'st me well. Proud Bolingbroke, I come
    Nor shall not while I have a stamp.
Enter the two Tribunes, SICINIUS and BRUTUS
                     150
    shame her.
    That next by him beneath; so ever step,
  Con. If not a present remedy, at least a patient sufferance.
  To him one of the other twins was bound,
    If he outlive the envy of this day,

    Until it wither with me to my grave,  
    Thou fell'st into my fury, for one death
    As I my poor self did exchange for you,
Verona. An open place
    Who seeks, and will not take when once 'tis offer'd,
  CURTIS. Both of one horse?
    Some of these articles; and out they shall.
    I think the Duke of Burgundy will fast
    She is my goods, my chattels, she is my house,
    too late. Fie, fie, fie! cuckold! cuckold! cuckold!     Exit
    With nothing trembles. At some thing it grieves
  GREMIO. And so we will- provided that he win her.
    their barks.
    As much foolery as I have, so much wit thou lack'st.
  PORTIA. I would have had thee there, and here again,

  POMPEY. 'Twas never merry world since, of two usuries, the merriest
    And, when she put it on, she made me vow
    Learn how 'tis held, and what they are that must

    knowing I had no such purpose? I must give myself some hurts, and
    Most cruel to herself. What she confess'd
    But tell the Dauphin I will keep my state,
            Enter EUPHRONIUS, Ambassador from ANTONY
    grows late; we'll to bed. Thou't forget me when I am gone.
    And I have heard it said unbidden guests
    Northumberland, and that sprightly Scot of Scots, Douglas, that  
    I and my brother are not known; yourself
  For that sweet odour, which doth in it live:
    I thought it was a fault, but knew it not;
  KING JOHN. France, thou shalt rue this hour within this hour.
  AUDREY. Faith, the priest was good enough, for all the old
     Which do command them. With him I sent the Queen,
    But, as you know me all, a plain blunt man,
  Fal. O, thou hast damnable iteration, and art indeed able to
    Knew that we ventured on such dangerous seas
    And cull their flower, Ajax shall cope the best.
  Ham. My mother! Father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is
    he is?

    Be not as extreme in submission as in offence;
  IAGO. Come, come, good wine is a good familiar creature, if it be
    Or of the deadly seven it is the least.
    take it.
    told.
  Queen. Came this from Hamlet to her?
  Queen. Drown'd, drown'd.
     Cost him his eyes.
    Yet have I heard- O, could I find it now!-
    Away with Oxford to Hames Castle straight;
      sir,
    in it, it goes much against my stomach. Hast any philosophy in
     Of other your new pranks. I do beseech you
  CASSIO. That thrust had been mine enemy indeed,
  ENOBARBUS. Caesar? Why he's the Jupiter of men.
  MOTH. Why, sir, is this such a piece of study? Now here is three
    And her to whom my thoughts are humbled all,

     Look with thine ears. See how yond justice rails upon yond
    The King from Eltham I intend to steal,
  AGRIPPA. Who does he accuse?

    The fear's as bad as falling; the toil o' th' war,
    costard when I have goot opportunities for the ork. Pless
  Of young, of old, and sexes both enchanted,
    As I do know the consul's worthiness,
    To-day at Pomfret bloodily were butcher'd,
  DOCTOR. A great perturbation in nature, to receive at once the
    Thou seest the world, Volumnius, how it goes;
    For I am bold to counsel you in this:
    The shrine of Venus or straight-pight Minerva,
    Then pardon him, sweet father, for my sake.
  PORTER. These are the youths that thunder at a playhouse
    Let not her penance exceed the King's commission.

    must be blind too.
    Staying for waftage. O, be thou my Charon,

    That Marcius shall be consul.  
    The better to beguile. This is for all:
    Call in the powers, good cousin Westmoreland.
    particular prosperity, and love thee no worse than thy old father
     A mistress's command. Wear this.          [Gives a favour.]
    the world could have seen't, the woe had been universal.
    Right in thine eye. Away, my friends! New flight,
    Agree these deeds with that proud brag of thine
  KING. Good old knight,
    For let the gods so speed me as I love
    Into my story; say 'Thus mine enemy fell,  
  MENENIUS. From Rome.
    would suspect thee, when, peradventure, thou wert accus'd by the
                             EPILOGUE
    Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
    this bath, when I was more than half-stew'd in grease, like
  PROTEUS. I do, my lord.
    Out of a fortitude of soul I feel,
  CLOTEN. Come, I'll to my chamber. Would there had been some hurt
    Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
  Kent. If I had thee in Lipsbury Pinfold, I would make thee care for
    To woo a maid in way of marriage;  
  For slander lives upon succession,
  My reason the physician to my love,  
    My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
                    Enter Othello and Attendants.
    Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him
  JAQUES. The worst fault you have is to be in love.
  LIEUTENANT. First let my words stab him, as he hath me.
    I had in charge at my depart for France,
  BUCKINGHAM. You have, my lord. Would it might please
    your son was upon his return home, I moved the King my master to  
     converse with him that is wise and says little, to fear  
  Nurse. Peter, stay at the gate.
     Who is too good to pity thee.
    To fight with Glendower and the Earl of March.
    the pander to her dishonour, and equally to me disloyal.'
    How wert thou handled being prisoner?
Enter ANTONIO, SALERIO, and SOLANIO
    It should not stand in thy posterity,
  OBERON. But we are spirits of another sort:  
    Let's march without the noise of threat'ning drum,
                                 Exeunt second and third DRAWERS
  For if we two be one, and thou play false,
  Lear. Right noble Burgundy,
    parts bread with him, pledges the breath of him in a divided
    And made them watchers of mine own heart's sorrow.
  LEPIDUS. Worthily spoken, Maecenas.
             Money's a meddler
    most unpitifully methought.  
    Interpretation will misquote our looks,
                       Enter AEMILIUS

    May be more free.
    That never mean to part.
    Into this city's bosom.
  WARWICK. Prove it, Henry, and thou shalt be King.
    same whoreson apoplexy.
    Hood my unmann'd blood, bating in my cheeks,
    Edward, what satisfaction canst thou make
    And world's exile is death. Then 'banishment'
               Re-enter Lucius, with wine and taper.
    Being, as it is, much spoke of.
  Pedro. None, but to desire your good company.
    All my abilities in thy behalf.
    You thief of love! What! Have you come by night,
    Such a dependency of thing on thing,

    On, Myrmidons, and cry you an amain
    And she alone were cold; whereat I, wretch,
  KATHARINE. A pox of that jest! and I beshrew all shrows!
  My mistress when she walks treads on the ground.
    Have we no wine here?
  
    Speak; tell me.
    Something I can command. As I walk thither,
  CLAUDIO. Most holy sir, I thank you.
    There is no stir or walking in the streets,
    Speak like a true knight, so defend thee heaven!
    It is a manacle of love; I'll place it
  SALERIO. He is ready at the door; he comes, my lord.  
  Into this abbey, whither we pursu'd them;
    Touch you the sourest points with sweetest terms,
    I'll make him glad to seem Vincentio,
    He forfeits his own blood that spills another.
  LAUNCE. That makes amends for her sour breath.
  My nobler part to my gross body's treason,
     blush'd to acknowledge him that now I am braz'd to't.
    The organs, though defunct and dead before,
  TOUCHSTONE. Why, if thou never wast at court thou never saw'st good
    One that excels the quirks of blazoning pens,
    maid be married, but she shall pay to me her maidenhead ere they
    Taking thy part, hath rush'd aside the law,

    To make me fight at land!
    to fight lustily for him.
  WHITMORE. Gualtier or Walter, which it is I care not:
  Greg. The heads of the maids?
  BASSANIO. In my school-days, when I had lost one shaft,
    For 'tis a bond in men. Give him thy daughter:
    Either to be restored to my blood,
    Let this be so, and doubt not but success
    Command, I mean, of virtuous intents,
  SUFFOLK. He has; and we shall see him  
  LEONTES. Would he do so, I'd beg your precious mistress,
  TITUS. Patience, Prince Saturninus.
    My soul the father; and these two beget
  THIRD OUTLAW. Stand, sir, and throw us that you have about ye;
    See where she comes. Lady, a happy evening!
    But so it must be, if the King miscarry.
    Didst thou but know the inly touch of love.
    speak it profanely), that, neither having the accent of
    You give away myself, which is known mine;
  that, when gentlemen are tired, gives them a sob, and rest
    When he that speaks them pleases those that hear.
                                  Exeunt GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS
  PISTOL,      "    "   "    "     "
    For look you, I may make the belly smile
                    Enter JAQUENETTA and COSTARD
    say 'Amen.' What ho! my Lord Achilles!
    Accursed if the fault be prov'd in them-
  ANNE. Now, Master Slender-
    not to remember, not to have patience to shift me-
  Make glad and sorry seasons as thou fleet'st,
    We do not throw in unrespective sieve,
  FALSTAFF. I have a whole school of tongues in this belly of mine;
    Obeying in commanding, and thy parts  
  Yet mortal looks adore his beauty still,
  Nurse. Now, by my maidenhead at twelve year old,
    Nor dare I say 'tis mine, and yet it is;
    nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of
    Who were the motives that you first went out;
  TOUCHSTONE. Your lips will feel them the sooner. Shallow again. A
    Lest I be taken. Not th' imperious show
                      Exeunt POLIXENES, HERMIONE, and ATTENDANTS
    Of this post-haste and romage in the land.

<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    The thing whereat it trembles by surmise;
    the only men.
    love they know not why, they hate upon no better a ground.
    understands me.
    I'll bring mine action on the proudest he

    Whilst thou liest warm at home, secure and safe;
     Which we durst never yet- and with strain'd pride
  SHEPHERD. His garments are rich, but he wears them not handsomely.  

    For I am sick when I do look on thee.
  Just to the time, not with the time exchanged,
    And they have serv'd me to effectless use.
  In so profound abysm I throw all care
  Edg. Know my name is lost;
  SALISBURY. Or rather then set forward; for 'twill be
              Or fruitful object be
    And freely urge against me.
    Whose rocky shore beats back the envious siege
  SHYLOCK. No, not take interest; not, as you would say,
    But not intentively. I did consent,  
  It suffers not in smiling pomp, nor falls
    courteous office as to know of the knight what my offence to him
    That brought her for this high good turn so far?
    Gives way to in repose!
    But, as I say, such as become a soldier
    And helper to a husband. But, O strange men!
    Than I am made by my young lord and thee!
    thee so put down?
    The bearer knows not, but commends itself
  RICHARD. Brother, give me thy hand; and, gentle Warwick,
    I have not long to trouble thee. Good Griffith,
    Or die renowned by attempting it.
  BOTTOM. Some man or other must present Wall; and let him have some
  CAPTAIN. Be you his eunuch and your mute I'll be;
  ACHILLES. I do disdain thy courtesy, proud Troyan.
  Beat. Sweet Hero! she is wrong'd, she is sland'red, she is undone.

    eight and nine; I must carry her word quickly. She'll make
  PANDULPH. Hail, you anointed deputies of heaven!
    Rest thy unrest on England's lawful earth,    [Sitting down]

    To note the chamber. I will write all down:
    must wear it one way, for the Prince hath got your Hero.
    To fortune's yoke, but let thy dauntless mind
    How is't with me, when every noise appals me?
    I see a yielding in the looks of France;
    To the dead bodies. I will apprehend him.

    Hadst thou beheld-
  LUCIUS. Dost thou speak seriously, Servilius?
    And preachers to us all, admonishing
  LARTIUS. Agreed.
  DUCHESS. Was never mother had so dear a loss.
    Such sense that my sense breeds with it.- Fare you well.  
  To one, of one, still such, and ever so.

    And so we wept; and there was the first gentleman-like tears that
  YORK. Grandam, his nurse.
    Rest, sword; thou hast thy fill of blood and death!
    For all her cherubin look.
    for credit of the prentices.
    You bees that make these locks of counsel! Lovers

    I had it from my father.
    This day those enernies are put to death,
  IAGO. Nothing, my lord; or if- I know not what.
  Ham. What, look'd he frowningly.
    I am Revenge, sent from th' infernal kingdom
    Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
    Where most she satisfies; for vilest things
    To the majestic cedar join'd, whose issue
    Look what thy soul holds dear, imagine it
  SALISBURY. Stay yet another day, thou trusty Welshman;
    A fit or two o' th' face; but they are shrewd ones;
  HECTOR. Why, then will I no more.
    Thou hast not done before.

    Till now I never knew thee!                        [Music. Dance]
  SNUG. Masters, the Duke is coming from the temple; and there is two
  LAUNCELOT. That is done too, sir, only 'cover' is the word.
    So poorly in your thoughts.
  Fal. But, as the devil would have it, three misbegotten knaves in
    Steep'd me in poverty to the very lips,
    The stony entrance of this sepulchre?
    the satin for my short cloak and my slops?
      agree;
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  WARWICK. Because thy father Henry did usurp;
    have; and, truly, when he dies thou shalt be his heir; for what
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,  
                                           Gives him the letter.
  CORIOLANUS. Mine own desert.
  IAGO.                          How now, my lord?

     These dispositions that of late transform you
    greater forfeit to the law than Angelo who hath sentenc'd him. To
    meet him with any convenience, an he were double and double a
  MENENIUS. Nay, these are almost thoroughly persuaded;
  BASTARD. He will the rather do it when he sees
    Come to one mark, as many ways meet in one town,
  CAMILLO. This is desperate, sir.
    That by indictment and by dint of sword
  POMPEY. To the ground, mistress.
    I come by note, to give and to receive.
    And in this brainish apprehension kills

    Health and fair time of day; joy and good wishes
  KING HENRY. Yes.
  That hath his windows glazed with thine eyes:
    [Exit BARDOLPH]  Come, Pistol, utter more to me; and withal
  EMILIA.                 He went hence but now,
    will thrive, lads, we will thrive.
  TITUS. I'll show you how t' observe a strange event.
    If I discover'd not which way she was gone,

  BUCKINGHAM. Why, all this business
  AENEAS. Nor I from Troy come not to whisper with him;

    you'll be laugh'd at.
  EMILIA. No, faith; she let it drop by negligence,  
    most sovereign prescription in Galen is but empiricutic and, to
Enter CLOWN and PAROLLES
  DUCHESS. Ah, Gloucester, teach me to forget myself!
  LUCENTIO, son to Vincentio, in love with Bianca
    The main consents are had; and here we'll stay
    Weep for my pardon. So it must be, for now  
  IMOGEN. What makes your admiration?
    Betwixt myself and her; which was broke off,
  KING HENRY. O Thou that judgest all things, stay my thoughts-


  NYM. They say he cried out of sack.

  VIRGILIA. I will wish her speedy strength, and visit her with my

                      Enter TROILUS
    Of thousand friends; then, in a moment, see
    To guide our measure round about the tree.
  YORK. Peruse this writing here, and thou shalt know  
    And says, if ladies be but young and fair,
    Rise, Grumio, rise; we will compound this quarrel.

    breath of her accustomed crossness.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Or else our spell is marr'd.
  Of this our time, all you prefiguring,
    have earn'd them. You a captain! you slave, for what? For tearing
  CHAMBERLAIN. Your Grace?
    To your proceedings? Do not seek to stuff
    To have thee crown'd withal.
    Pack'd cards with Caesar, and false-play'd my glory
    It was young Hotspur's case at Shrewsbury.
    I am from humble, he from honoured name;

    But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
    That I an accessary needs must be,
  Ophelia, daughter to Polonius.
    What fool hath added water to the sea,
  ORLANDO. I thank ye; and be blest for your good comfort!
    His fame unparallel'd haply amplified;
     I had daughters.
  If from thy self, to store thou wouldst convert:  
    That they'll not show their teeth in way of smile  
                       Re-enter Lucius.
    And not a man of them that we shall take
    place it for her chief virtue.
  Perchance I will be there as soon as you.
                                                 [Shouts within]
    That thus affects a sheep-hook! Thou, old traitor,
  FORD. Troth, and I have a bag of money here troubles me; if

  And soon at supper-time I'll visit you,
  And credent soul to that strong-bonded oath,
    How should I be reveng'd? If this be true-
    Prerogative of age, crowns, sceptres, laurels,
    Be what they will, I heartily forgive 'em;
The rebel camp.
    That Christendom gives out.
  KING HENRY. Take it, brave York. Now, soldiers, march away;
    waste. About it.
    Is 'plain and true'; there's all the reach of it.
  JUNO. Honour, riches, marriage-blessing,
    To-night she's mew'd up to her heaviness.
  A crow that flies in heaven's sweetest air.
    Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course,
                     Enter a Doctor.
    I have a roisting challenge sent amongst  
    Perforce, against all checks, rebukes, and manners,
  CADE. Valiant I am.
    Prepares for some attempt of war.
                   Enter SCROOP

    Let the white death sit on thy cheek for ever,
    He sends you this most memorable line,       [Gives a paper]
    Aches contract and starve your supple joints!  
    And then I stole all courtesy from heaven,
  So is it not with me as with that muse,
    And not a maiden, as thou sayst he is.
  Mar. What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
    Before so noble and so great a figure
    Sent from your brother, Marquis Montague.
    That he will give you audience; and wherein
  PHILARIO. Sir, be patient;
  JULIA. And she shall thank you for't, if e'er you know her.
  CRESSIDA. Now, my sweet guardian! Hark, a word with you.
    Cries 'Excellent! 'tis Agamemnon just.

    I do not lie.
    Rude ragged nurse, old sullen playfellow
  Leon. How now, brother? Where is my cousin your son? Hath he
    Of thrice three times the value of this bond.
    In aught an eunuch has. 'Tis well for thee
    God bye you, Princes all; I'll to my charge.
  TRINCULO. Where should they be set else? He were a brave
  BUCKINGHAM. All the whole time
    Do you as I do in these dangerous days:
    Then let me die, for now thou hast no cause.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    To join our kingdoms and our hearts; and never
    me mad. I say, we will have no moe marriages. Those that are

    From these that my poor company detest.
  MENENIUS. A hundred thousand welcomes. I could weep  
    And so deep sticks it in my penitent heart
    And, to add greater honours to his age  
  MENENIUS. I know you can do very little alone; for your helps are
         And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
    1. A lively flourish of trumpets.
  MASTER-GUNNER. Sirrah, thou know'st how Orleans is
    A man of stricture and firm abstinence,
Flourish. Alarum. A retreat is sounded. Enter, at one door,
  Rom. O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
    Wherein we play in.
     Despite of mine own nature. Quickly send
  VIOLENTA, neighbour and friend to the Widow
                                             [Giving them money]
                      Enter MISTRESS PAGE
    For all in vain comes counsel to his ear.
    Have lov'd it too. I would not change this hue,
    him?
    Shalt feel our justice; in whose easiest passage
    Unless you can find sport in their intents,
    I may not prove inferior to yourself.
    That had a court no bigger than this cave,
    transformation hath been wash'd and cudgell'd, they
    And thou wilt have me die assur'd of it.
    Was force perforce compell'd to banish him,
  MOTH. The third of the five vowels, if You repeat them; or the
  ALONSO. I cannot too much muse
    Our wish, which side should win; for either thou
  ALCIBIADES. Why, I say, my lords, has done fair service,

    sight?
            Do make their children blind;
  Ben. Romeo will answer it.
SCENE II.
    But such another man!
  CONSTABLE. Nor will do none to-morrow: he will keep that good name
  Queen. Nay, but Ophelia-
    The name of honor more than I fear death.
    Poictiers, and Anjou, these five provinces,
    And their most reverend heads dash'd to the walls;  
    how near the god drew to the complexion of a goose! A
    Master Shallow, I would humour his men with the imputation of
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. 'Tis one Iago, ancient to the general.
    Ne'er shall this blood be wiped from thy point,
   Into a thousand parts divide one man,
  FIRST LORD. God bless you, Captain Parolles.
    How stands your disposition to be married?
    Brags of his substance, not of ornament.
  POINS. Answer, thou dead elm, answer.
    If I do feign, you witnesses above
    And in their pale dull mouths the gimmal'd bit
    That it shall please you to declare in hearing
    That did display them when we first march'd forth;

  Authorizing thy trespass with compare,
    To this most cruel act, do but despair;
    To whom as great a charge as little honour
  give you nothing for something. But say, sir, is it dinnertime?
    We see the ground whereon these woes do lie,
  BANQUO. So I lose none
  All. No, let's come in!
    No further harm.
  Samp. I strike quickly, being moved.

  SLENDER. Marry, sir, I have matter in my head against you;
    gooseberry. You that are old consider not the capacities of us  
    Of bringing back the prisoner.
    And then when poisoned hours had bound me up
  APEMANTUS. Beast!
    What you would ask me, that I should deny,
  YORK. With thy brave bearing should I be in love
    By nature prov'd an enemy to the flock,
    By all the duties that I owe to Rome,
    Did practise on my state, your being in Egypt
    No court in Europe is too good for thee;
    Unthread the rude eye of rebellion,
                                  Exeunt BUCKINGHAM and SOMERSET
  OTHELLO.                               I say, amen.
Rome. PHILARIO'S house
  When what I seek (my weary travel's end)
  TOUCHSTONE. And mine; but it grows something stale with me.
    To hate young Valentine and love my friend.
  ISABELLA. Why her 'unhappy brother'? Let me ask
    Flat treason 'gainst the kingly state of youth.
    Millions of mischiefs.                               Exeunt.
    How troublesome it sat upon my head:
    to an answer. I think oxen and wainropes cannot hale them
    Forbid the sea for to obey the moon
    Weary of solid firmness, melt itself
    For everlasting bond of fellowship-
  CLEOPATRA. Where is he?
    With that harsh, noble, simple nothing-
    forbear both.  
    light upon thee! I will fear to catch it, and give way. When I
    You may pace easy, but not such a wife.
  SECOND LORD. He can come no other way but by this hedge-corner.
      With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
  BAPTISTA. How hast thou offended?

  DUCHESS. Come you, my lord, to see my open shame?
    To alter this, for counsel is but vain.
  SECOND LORD. I also wish it to you. I think this honourable lord
  KATHARINE. So may he ever do! and ever flourish
    Lives like a drunken sailor on a mast,
    As if he were forgot; and, Princes all,
    have no long spoon.
Enter Ghost and Hamlet.
    The mouths, the tongues, the eyes, and hearts of men
  Boy. He came with flowers to strew his lady's grave;
    To trouble and disturb the King and us?
    duchies of Anjou and Maine shall be released and delivered over
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Time is a very bankrupt, and owes
    Ere thou hadst power or we had cause of fear,
    But I should think of shallows and of flats,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  Hot. No.
    This proveth Edward's love and Warwick's honesty.
    rider mounts him; he is indeed a horse, and all other jades you

    To ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads,
    some sufficient honest witnesses.

  Before the always-wind-obeying deep
  TROILUS. Accept distracted thanks.
    wand'ring knight so fair. And I prithee, sweet wag, when thou art

    he not hold up his head, as it were, and strut in his gait?
  Laer. Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well
    Awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth;
    Thou hast a lady far more beautiful
  GRATIANO. A halter gratis; nothing else, for God's sake!
    That have consented unto Henry's death!
  MOTHER.   Since, Jupiter, our son is good,
    Is in one mile? If they have measured many,
    That was and is the question of these wars.
                                                     Exit JAQUES  
  FALSTAFF. Well; Mistress Ford, what of her?
    Crowns him with flowers, and makes him all her joy.
  When I have seen by Time's fell hand defaced
    When at their mothers' moist'ned eyes babes shall suck,
    peace.
London. Smithfield
    That this my mother's son was none of his;
    To hug with swine, to seek sweet safety out
    thee. [To SERVANT] Get you gone, sirrah. [Exit SERVANT] Draw
  PRINCE. Before God, I am exceeding weary.
    And we in negligent danger. Cheer your heart;
    pretty boy. O' my troth, I look'd upon him a Wednesday half an
    trippingly on the tongue. But if you mouth it, as many of our
  ANTONY. And shall, sir. Give's your hand.
  Beat. No, my lord, unless I might have another for working days:
    That hardly we escap'd the pride of France.             Exit
    I come to speak with her, indeed.
    By magic verses have contriv'd his end?
  Without accusing you of injury.  
    Farewell. Commend me to thy mistress.
    Was sent to by my brother; one Lucio
    To let an arrogant piece of flesh threat us,
  JULIA. I thank you, madam, that you tender her.

    I find him a fit fellow.                              Exit WOLSEY
    And tugg'd for life, and was by strength subdu'd.
    Or what is he of basest function
    Mark Antony's was by Caesar. He chid the sisters
Enter BAPTISTA, VINCENTIO, GREMIO, the PEDANT, LUCENTIO, BIANCA,
    In dignity, and for the liberal arts
  KING RICHARD. Wrong not her birth; she is a royal
  MARIA. Ay, but he'll have but a year in all these ducats; he's a
  TIMON. Ay, though it look like thee.
  Greg. How? turn thy back and run?
  KING HENRY. Uncle, what shall we say to this in law?  
    bleed, and then to beslubber our garments with it and swear it
    Of those that serv'd Mark Antony but late
              Sennet. Flourish. Exeunt all but VERNON and BASSET
     'tis by a vortnight. Nay, come not near th' old man. Keep out,
  FLORIZEL. I am- and by my fancy; if my reason
    Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.
  
  Come, where's the chain? I pray you let me see it.
    Ere you were born was beauty's summer dead.
    On the fair daughter of rich Capulet;
    Of Ragozine, more like to Claudio?
    This, I presume, will wake him.                            Exeunt

  Claud. I'll hold my mind, were she an Ethiope.

    My husband!

1596
    Where both not sin, and yet a sinful fact.
    If thou kill'st me, boy, thou shalt kill a man.
    What were it but to make my sorrow greater?
     she's as like this as a crab's like an apple, yet I can tell
    I better brook than flourishing peopled towns.
    By their own fear or sloth.
    And feast upon her eyes? What is't I dream on?
                        Re-enter BARDOLPH
  If 'a be in debt and theft, and a sergeant in the way,
  PANDARUS. Do you hear, my lord? Do you hear?
  ANTONIO. And the rarest that e'er came there.
  ANTONY. Stay, countrymen.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. And so they are.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    I fear, with dancing is a little heated.  
  Rom. Pink for flower.
    Is death misterm'd. Calling death 'banishment,'
    And pull'd the law upon you.
  LUCIUS. To rescue my two brothers from their death;
    For me, I'll not be gone till I please myself.
    The rather, if you could devise it so
  IMOGEN. I hope so. Go and search.                 Exit PISANIO
Enter LAUNCE with his dog
    Thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers
    And sack great Rome with Romans.
  PROTEUS. Why, sir, how do you bear with me?
    capricious poet, honest Ovid, was among the Goths.
  CASCA. No, I am promised forth.  
  HOST. To see thee fight, to see thee foin, to see thee traverse;
  KING. Take her away, I do not like her now;

    Must I not serve a long apprenticehood
    nothing; and that that did, I was set on to do't by Sir Toby.
  Hot. An if the devil come and roar for them,
    light upon neighbouring ponds. Your ring may be stol'n too. So  
  NESTOR
    Nor moody beggars, starving for a time

    more sweet understanding, a woman. Him I, as my ever-esteemed
  STAFFORD. And will you credit this base drudge's words
  If ten of thine ten times refigured thee:
     The tyranny of the open night 's too rough
    Then weep no more. I'll send to one in Mantua,
    Your Grace's title shall be multiplied.
  BELARIUS. It shall be so.
    sup a flea.

    Do not extort thy reasons from this clause,
    The dashing rocks thy seasick weary bark!
  Corn. Is he pursued?
    How now, who's there?
    How shall she know my griefs? I'll drop the paper-
  WIDOW. So, now they come.
  SUFFOLK. As doth a ruler with unlawful oaths;
  VOLUMNIA. Bastards and all.
    Seize thee that list. If once I find thee ranging,

  ALL. Show's the way, sir.

    This morning come before us; where I know

    To bring them to that prospect. Damn them then,  
    And yet his punishment was bitter death.
    My dear-lov'd cousin, and my dearer lord?
    Whom stripes may move, not kindness! I have us'd thee,
    My women may be with me, for you see
    That look'd upon't.
    To bring my whole cause 'fore his Holiness
    The royal banner, and all quality,
    When 'a was naked, he was for all the world like a fork'd radish,
    For bringing wood in slowly. I'll fall flat;
  QUICKLY. Who's there, I trow? Come near the house, I pray
  QUEEN MARGARET. Thou hast spoke too much already; get thee gone.
    call me Cut.
    Had virtuous uncles to protect his Grace.
  KING. No.
  Poins. Come, let's hear, Jack. What trick hast thou now?
  OLIVIA. See him deliver'd, Fabian; bring him hither.  
    Where great additions swell's, and virtue none,
  QUEEN MARGARET.  [Coming forward]  If ancient sorrow be
  ACHILLES. This is not strange, Ulysses.

    Enter Friar [Laurence], with lanthorn, crow, and spade.
  CORIOLANUS. No, sir; yet oft,
  Laur. Who bare my letter, then, to Romeo?
  Yet this thy praise cannot be so thy praise,
    I now beseech you, for your daughter's sake,
    And that I have possess'd him my most stay
  Hor. The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
     Hoppedance cries in Tom's belly for two white herring. Croak
  Oph. (Sings)
    Till our King Henry had shook hands with death.
    Like trees bedash'd with rain-in that sad time
  SHYLOCK. What judgment shall I dread, doing no wrong?

    Married the Duke of Clarence' daughter, did he not?
    You would not use a gentle lady so:
     From this enormous state, seeking to give

    And on the gates of Lud's Town set your heads.
    Upon whose leaves are drops of new-shed blood
           Saint Withold footed thrice the 'old;
    O courteous Tybalt! honest gentleman
  ROSALIND. Out, fool!
  Or if it do, not from those lips of thine,  

  PETRUCHIO. A herald, Kate? O, put me in thy books!
           Hath such force and blessed power.
  PAROLLES. I am so full of business I cannot answer thee acutely. I
    I do beseech you, let it be his fault,

  It fears not policy that heretic,
    Make much of him, my lords; for this is he
  NYM. The anchor is deep; will that humour pass?
    And therefore fortify your hold, my lord.
    That hath a stomach in't; which is no other,
    The court's a learning-place, and he is one-

  Hero. So says the Prince, and my new-trothed lord.
    Nearest the merchant's heart. Be merciful.
    He cannot be compell'd to 't- once remove
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  SPEED. Marry, by these special marks: first, you have learn'd, like  
Scene VI.
    Whence cometh this alarum and the noise?
    To whom the heav'ns in thy nativity
              Re-enter SIR TOBY and SIR FABIAN
    To their benumbed wills, resist the same;
    To be a public spectacle to all;
    That ever lay by man; which when the people
    Levy great sums of money through the realm
    Have left me naked to mine enemies.
  LONGAVILLE. By whom shall I send this?- Company! Stay.
  Ham. What did you enact?
    your servant.
    With my base tongue give to my noble heart
    Now seems to it. Your patience this allowing,

    Had his necessity made use of me,
    When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees,
  EVANS. I will teach the children their behaviours; and I will
    have I forgot?                                          Exit

          In this bare island by your spell;
  PAGE. Sir, I thank you.
    Thou know'st that we two went to school together;
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Say I command her come to me.                    Exit GRUMIO  
    Are deeply indebted for this piece of pains;  
  KING PHILIP. How much unlook'd for is this expedition!
    Cry 'No recovery.'
  ANTONY. 'Tis said, man; and farewell.
London. A street leading to the Tower

    Piercing our Romans; then, valiant Titus, take
  BELARIUS. He wrings at some distress.

  SECOND LORD. He sent to me, sir- here he comes.
        Ever sprung, as sun and showers
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
            And to become the geck and scorn
    With horsemen, that make to him on the spur;
     I bar it in the interest of my wife.

    That love which virtue begs and virtue grants.
    Is counted lost for ever, Perdita  

    Beteem them from the tempest of my eyes.
    soldiers, the father of his son, nor the master of his servant;
  AGUECHEEK. Ay, ay; I care not for good life.
  Within be fed, without be rich no more,
    infernal Ate in good apparel. I would to God some scholar would
  LYSANDER. Why should he stay whom love doth press to go?
KING JOHN's palace
    So many miles upon her peaceful bosom,
    Horrible villain! or I'll spurn thine eyes
    I should have given him tears unto entreaties
    Which, pardon me, I do not mean to read-
    wouldest truly know. What a devil hast thou to do with the time
    Against the which a moiety competent
    To th' smothering of the sense- how far it is
    Lie there what hidden woman's fear there will-
    May readily be stopp'd.

    Otherwise 'tis light, and not heavy. Ask my Lady Beatrice else.
  And sealed false bonds of love as oft as mine,
    If it be husbanded with modesty.
    And revel in Lavinia's treasury.
  TAILOR. She says your worship means to make a puppet of her.
                         Enter CATESBY
    little; comfort a little; cheer thyself a little. If this uncouth
  PANDARUS. I will, sweet queen.                Exit. Sound a retreat
    A soul so easy as that Englishman's.'
  Save what is had, or must from you be took.
  ELBOW. His neck will come to your waist- a cord, sir.  
  BERTRAM. Undone, and forfeited to cares for ever!
  VALENTINE. And why not death rather than living torment?
  PISANIO. I am most glad  
    Upon my knee I beg, go not to arms
    As I have spoken for you all my best
  Consumed with that which it was nourished by.
  KATHERINE. C'est assez pour une fois: allons-nous a diner.
    With letters of your love to her at large.
    No longer session hold upon my shame,
    And I'll salute your Grace of York as mother
    But, stay. What news? Why com'st thou in such post?
    And would have sent it. Another word, Menenius,
    Pluck the lin'd crutch from thy old limping sire,
    beards; and your beards deserve not so honourable a grave as to
    and the case to be lamented. This grief is crown'd with
    Till I have thank'd you. When dinner's done
    With politic grave counsel; then the King
  Be thou the tenth Muse, ten times more in worth
    For I dare so far free him- made him fear'd,
    I am betroth'd; and art thou not asham'd
    Than where castles mounted stand.
the EARL OF WARWICK, the BISHOP OF WINCHESTER
    Cassio in Othello's place.
    your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is.
    So near our public court as twenty miles,
    And will, by twos and threes, at several posterns,
    Hath willingly departed with a part;  

    Our purses shall be proud, our garments poor;

    We make a choir, as doth the prison'd bird,



    Then let the ladies tattle what they please.

    Straining upon the start. The game's afoot:
  PATROCLUS. Jove bless great Ajax!
    I'll come to you anon.
  ROSALIND. So I do; but, i' faith, I should have been a woman by
  THESEUS. Why, gentle sweet, you shall see no such thing.  
    I'll by a sign give notice to our friends,
  PATROCLUS. And to procure safe conduct from Agamemnon.
DUKE. With all my heart, I'll gossip at this feast.
    nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing,  
  IACHIMO. What's that?
    How now, my son?
  CADE. Be it a lordship, thou shalt have it for that word.
Rousillon. The inner court of the COUNT'S palace

    LORD BIGOT
  BEROWNE. A right description of our sport, my lord.
ACT IV. SCENE 2.

    In voices well divulg'd, free, learn'd, and valiant,
    discretion, and the fox carries the goose.
    fortune! Here comes the man. To him, father, for I am a Jew, if I

    As is the spring to th' earth. And hath he too
    Here stand we both, and aim we at the best;
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  Ham. Why, man, they did make love to this employment!
    Leave them as naked as the vulgar air.
  PROTEUS. Well, give her that ring, and therewithal
    There is a prohibition so divine
  BERTRAM. Admiringly, my liege. At first
              Hark, hark!
    Being once gangren'd, is not then respected  
    Nips youth i' th' head, and follies doth enew
  MOTH. Thump, then, and I flee.                            Exit
    You that will follow me to this attempt,
    me thou shalt, I get thee with scambling, and thou must therefore
    with the men, I will be cruel with the maids- I will cut off
  BASTARD. Madam, an if my brother had my shape
              And praise God for the merry year;
  Rom. I dreamt a dream to-night.

  John. I will presently go learn their day of marriage.
    That barefoot plod I the cold ground upon,
  HOLOFERNES. Judas I am-
    Thou art their soldier and, being bred in broils,
    Now will I question Cassio of Bianca,
    With some sweet consort; to their instruments

    It shall content me best. Be gentle to her.
    Our love being yours, the error that love makes
  Upon the hours, and times of your desire?
    In which, good friar, I shall desire your help.
    If ye be any thing but churchmen's habits-
    To God of heaven, King Richard, and to me.

    Being naked, sick, nor fane nor Capitol,
    I pray you, is my master yet return'd?
  TULLUS AUFIDIUS, General of the Volscians
Enter BERTRAM and DIANA
    Fortune and Antony part here; even here
    By maidhood, honour, truth, and every thing,
  PAROLLES. I do not know if it be it or no.
    how I might be knighted. I shall think the worse of fat
    O, mickle is the powerful grace that lies
    Not friended by his wish, to your high person
    The eye of majesty.
    Lords, to the field; Saint George and victory!
  ALCIBIADES. What art thou there? Speak.
  THESEUS. This fellow doth not stand upon points.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    And turn you all your hatred now on me?

  MARQUIS OF DORSET and LORD GREY, her sons
SCENE V.
    Than but to know't a little.
     The bounty and the benison of heaven
  IDEN. How much thou wrong'st me, heaven be my judge.
  EVANS. Shall I tell you a lie? I do despise a liar as I do
    What is it? Coriolanus must I can thee?
  Fool. She that's a maid now, and laughs at my departure,
  Who moving others, are themselves as stone,
  SECOND OUTLAW. If there be ten, shrink not, but down with 'em.
    Be angry when you will, it shall have scope;
  VALERIA. My ladies both, good day to you.
    This is the pit and this the elder-tree.
    Cannot vouchsafe this burden, 'tis too weak
    Should he scape Hector fair. If he were foil'd,
    To us that give you truly. By your patience,
  SURVEYOR. 'If' quoth he 'I for this had been committed-
    Queen. O, confound the rest!
    Would they were clyster-pipes for your sake! [Trumpet within.]
    Extorted treasure in the womb of earth
    They set the same; and there it doth remain,
    Show me thy chink, to blink through with mine eyne.
    Yes, heartily beseech you.
    We license your departure with your son.-
  And the twin Dromio, all were taken up;
    And these and all are all amiss employ'd.
    Nor shall not, whilst 'tis in my custody.
    Mustardseed.  
    Nor to his service no such joy on earth.
    O insupportable and touching loss!
  SICILIUS. Great Nature like his ancestry
  QUEEN. Go tell this heavy message to the King.       Exit VAUX
    Small have continual plodders ever won,
    Among the bands-may drive us to a render
    Whiles, in his moan, the ship splits on the rock,
    Than she which by her death our Caesar tells  
    That in a gondola were seen together
    Owen Glendower spoke of.
  DICK. Here, sir.
    And so am I for Phebe.
  KING. And Ethiopes of their sweet complexion crack.
    His bloody sword he brandish'd over me,
    No sweet aspersion shall the heavens let fall
    me, whether you were sent for or no.  
    (Sings) To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
    And, in conclusion,
  CAPUCIUS. By heaven, I will,
    I charm you, by my once commended beauty,
    And show the best of our delights.
  KING. Say to her we have measur'd many miles
                     64
    Of benefit proceeding from our king
    Think not, although in writing I preferr'd
    fools have was silenced, the little foolery that wise men have
    What news from Oxford? Do these justs and triumphs hold?  

    Vouchsafe to speak my thanks and my obedience,
    And be not fix'd in doom perpetual,  
  PORTIA. Is Brutus sick, and is it physical
    How will he scorn, how will he spend his wit!
    And may our oaths well kept and prosp'rous be!
  Apoth. Such mortal drugs I have; but Mantua's law
    And will o'er reach them in their own devices,
    We will perform in measure, time, and place.
  MENAS. Wilt thou be lord of all the world?
  BRUTUS. For your life you durst not.
    another's throats?
    Both full of truth, I make King Lewis behold

    I'll kiss each several paper for amends.  
                     119
    wouldst make an absolute courtier, and the firm fixture of
  The lovely gaze where every eye doth dwell
                 Enter HOST, CAIUS, and RUGBY
  And darkly bright, are bright in dark directed.
    Ay, and since too, murthers have been perform'd
                     Re-enter CRESSIDA
  Tyb. You shall find me apt enough to that, sir, an you will give me
    Unto my brother, Archbishop of York.
    Into his power, and modest wisdom plucks me
    Have I tonight fluster'd with flowing cups,
  MESSENGER. With all my heart, my liege.                        Exit
    To see the strange impatience of the heavens.
  PROSPERO. 'Tis time
    And substituted in the place of mine,

    Was't you that revell'd in our parliament  
    Master, this prisoner freely give I thee;
    must be a personating of himself; a satire against the softness

    And with his troops doth march amain to London;
    And like the tyrannous breathing of the north
    mouldy lack use. Very singular good! In faith, well said, Sir
    And none but fools do wear it. Cast it off.
    Music, make their welcome.                        Exit CUPID
     Which shall be needful for your entertainment.
    Of virtue was she; yea, and she herself.
ACT IV. SCENE I.
                        Re-enter DAVY
    (Sings) He is dead and gone, lady,  
  Pedro. Who have you offended, masters, that you are thus bound to
    Our enemies have beat us to the pit;            Low alarums.
  ORLANDO. I thank you, sir; and pray you tell me this:

  ORLANDO. Why, whither, Adam, wouldst thou have me go?
  MACDUFF. Your royal father's murther'd.
    Nor none so bad but well may be reported.
  FALSTAFF. Pistol, I would be quiet.
    That makes thee strangle thy propriety.
    Page, and she's a great lubberly boy. If it had not been i'
    That you can let this go? Are you so gospel'd,

    O, may diseases only work upon't!
    So says the bond; doth it not, noble judge?
    Or keep it as a cistern for foul toads
  AUTOLYCUS. Softly, dear sir  [Picks his pocket];  good sir, softly.
    As pure as sin with baptism.
  PISTOL. Let vultures vile seize on his lungs also!
  JULIA. Your reason?
    A law-breaker, a villain. Yield thee, thief.
    But one imperious in another's throne?
 Exit
    Did to his Majesty, his mother, and his lady,  
COURTEZAN. Give me the ring of mine you had at dinner,
  APEMANTUS. Ho, ho, confess'd it! Hang'd it, have you not?

  GUIDERIUS. This is sure Fidele.
    The tribunes are no soldiers, and their people
    Where, he shall see, the boar will use us kindly.  
    Devour up my discourse; which I observing,
    And kill him in the shell.
  ANNE. Was he mad, sir?
  SIR HUMPHREY STAFFORD
  BALTHASAR, servant to Portia
    Page; and the letter is to desire and require her to solicit
    Her father and myself (lawful espials)
  CRESSIDA. Have the gods envy?
    And try your penitence, if it be sound
    I must obey.
    He is gone happy, and has left me rich.
                                                         Exeunt.
    Are we not brothers?
ACT V. SCENE I.
    But she may learn; happier than this,
    What other pleasure can the world afford?
    Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
    Othello, the fortitude of the place is best known to you; and
    It skills not much; we'll fit him to our turn-
    If that the prais'd himself bring the praise forth;
    What you have underta'en to do in's absence.
  SAY. Long sitting to determine poor men's causes
    Swinge me them soundly forth unto their husbands.
  BASSANIO. If I could add a lie unto a fault,
    And unsuspected court her by herself.
    No, no! 'Tis all men's office to speak patience
    Wouldst have me weep? Why, now thou hast thy will;
    kept Hector fasting and waking.  
    Words without thoughts never to heaven go.             Exit.
    Till o'er their brows death-counterfeiting sleep

    Lord of York's armour.
    these wars, his great opposer, Coriolanus, being now in no
    But that two villains, whose false oaths prevail'd
  Clouds and eclipses stain both moon and sun,
  Ham. Are you fair?
    And let them be recall'd from their exile:
    To Juliet's grave; for there must I use thee.
                                        Exit WALTER with SUFFOLK
  Fal. Yea, and so us'd it that, were it not here apparent that thou
    To-day my Lord of Amiens and myself
    All corners of the world. Kings, queens, and states,
     And come to deadly use.
    good Peter Quince, call forth your actors by the scroll. Masters,
  Five summers have I spent in farthest Greece,
    Hath come so near creation? Move these eyes?
    And wolves are gnarling who shall gnaw thee first.
    Whom you yourselves shall set out for reproof,
    As with a man by his own alms empoison'd,
    think how ill all's here about my heart. But it is no matter.
    Which, on your just proceeding, I'll keep off-
    Whom I encount'red as the battles join'd.  
    I then crave pardon of your Majesty.
    will be given to Ajax. He will be the ninth Worthy. A conqueror
    To entertain your Highness and your Empress.
    me, for I am slow of study.
    Will not wait pinion'd at your master's court,
    That England, being empty of defence,
  Hot. You say true.


  EROS. See you here, sir?
  IMOGEN. Peace, my lord. Hear, hear!
    Would make them capable.- Do not look upon me,
    And six or seven winters more respect
    gentlemen of companies- slaves as ragged as Lazarus in the
    How say you, madam? Are you now persuaded
  FLAVIUS. What do ye ask of me, my friend?
    Am heir to my affection.
  CYMBELINE. I know your master's pleasure, and he mine;
    A right good husband, let him be a noble;
    Shall have the fame. I have heard that Julius Caesar
  NYM. By welkin and her star!
    While Gloucester bears this base and humble mind.
    Why grow the branches when the root is gone?
    To let you know my thoughts.
  When in eternal lines to time thou grow'st,
    numbers. I find here that Don Pedro hath bestowed much honour on
  DICK. [Aside] But methinks he should stand in fear of fire, being
    I bade her come. What, lamb! what ladybird!
SCENE IV.
    Ingrateful, savage, and inhuman creature?
Enter COMINIUS, as it were in retire, with soldiers
    Whose every touch, would force the feeler's soul
     That wants the means to lead it.
    The King by this is set him down to sleep.
    Therefore my son i' th' ooze is bedded; and
    And show what we alone must think, which never
    Well, the gods are above; time must friend or end. Well, Troilus,
    Break off the parley; for scarce I can refrain
    Is likewise yours. We to ourselves prove false,
    And he our subjects' next degree in hope.  
    chin is not yet fledge. I will sooner have a beard grow in the
    I have made it empty.
    To make cold nymphs chaste crowns; and thy broom groves,
    Does of the shepherds; for his best friends, if they
    A salve for any sore that may betide.
    To you and your behests, and am enjoin'd
  LADY MACBETH. Know you not he has?  
Enter PROVOST and a SERVANT
    So they
    If you will take a homely man's advice,
    Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
    Or friends with Caesar, or not captive to him,
  CASSIUS. I did not think you could have been so angry.
    Counting myself but bad till I be best.
  GREMIO. And you are well met, Signior Hortensio.
  Bard. Sir John, you are so fretful you cannot live long.
    Letting "I dare not" wait upon "I would"
    His brother, Archbishop late of Canterbury,
    escape a great deal of discoveries; but when you find him out,
    Adversity's sweet milk, philosophy,
    And what is left, to lose it by his country
    Drop tears as fast as the Arabian trees
    For so run the conditions, leave those remnants
    Who hath indeed, most like a liberal villain,
    Though you can guess what temperance should be,
    Which gape and rub the elbow at the news
    I have perhaps some shallow spirit of judgment;
    'benedictus.'
    Country soldiers
    sparrow flying.
  Guil. My honour'd lord!
    despite of the flesh and the blood.
    Sojourn in Mantua. I'll find out your man,
    general. I may say so in this respect, for that he hath devoted
    Hark, hark! I hear the minstrels play.         [Music plays]
    Leave thy lascivious wassails. When thou once
  FAIRY QUEEN. With trial-fire touch me his finger-end;
  CLEOPATRA. O Charmian, I will never go from hence!
Britain. A prison
    or brook such disgrace well as he shall run into, in that it is
    And whilst a field should be dispatch'd and fought,
  CASSIUS. That you have wrong'd me doth appear in this:

  And brought to medicine a healthful state

  TALBOT. And here will Talbot mount or make his grave.
  SUFFOLK. How now, fellow! Wouldst anything with me?
    It follows in his thought that I am he.
    To mend the petty present, I will piece
  Alb. Go after her. She's desperate; govern her.
   captives. The CAPTAINS present POSTHUMUS to CYMBELINE, who delivers
     Flourish. Enter ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, her LADIES, the train,
         Do paint the meadows with delight,
    him too.
  ROSALINE. Since you are strangers, and come here by chance,  
    Will vouch the truth of it. Him I accuse
    And for her sake I will not part with him.
  HECTOR. What vice is that, good Troilus?
    What they are us'd to bear.
    Excitements of my reason and my blood,
    And ne'er prefer his injuries to his heart,
  DESDEMONA. O most lame and impotent conclusion! Do not learn of him,

  BOTH. Name them, my lord; let's know them.
  DESDEMONA.                      My noble father,
  GENERAL OF THE FRENCH. Thou ominous and fearful owl of
    Albeit he comes on angry purpose now;
  SIR TOBY. Go, Sir Andrew; scout me for him at the corner of the
    A mother less, or granted less, Aufidius?
  LUCIUS. Sooth, madam, I hear nothing.
     And I, her husband, contradict your banes.
    Must be to loathe her. O curse of marriage,
  Lady. How? so far?
    I freely told you all the wealth I had
    As are companions noted and most known
  ANTONIO. O, 'twas a din to fright a monster's ear,
    But kill'st the mother that engender'd thee!
    I cried to dream again.
    That trembles under his devouring paws;  
    farm-house, a-feasting; and thou shalt woo her. Cried
  ANTIGONUS. Go thou away;
    Exempted be from me the arrogance
    But not my griefs; still am I king of those.

    Go give him courteous conduct to this place.
    But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart;
  FIRST GUARD. Caesar hath sent-
    SECOND LORD. O, 'tis brave wars!
  COSTARD. No egma, no riddle, no l'envoy; no salve in the mail, sir.

    For 'tis of aspics' tongues!
  Ver. 'Twere best he did.
  AARON. Now climbeth Tamora Olympus' top,
  Where neither party is nor true nor kind.
  MENENIUS. Why, then you should discover a brace of unmeriting,
    Distracted clouds give way; so stand thou forth;


    How in my words somever she be shent,
                                      [The drum begins to march]
  The scope and tenure of thy jealousy?
    And talking of the Alps and Apennines,
    When you are cloudy.
    So bees with smoke and doves with noisome stench
    Which he has put upon't!
  SILVIA. She is beholding to thee, gentle youth.
    When but in all I was six thousand strong,
DUKE. And, for the sake of them thou sorrowest for,
    him some good counsel, for he seems to have the quotidian of love
  Hath travelled on to age's steepy night,
    Under device and practice.
    I am the shadow of poor Buckingham,

    lie.
    grim.
    Countess of Salisbury)
         God 'a'mercy on his soul!
  CELIA. I'll put myself in poor and mean attire,
  COUNTESS. What, one good in ten? You corrupt the song, sirrah.
    men do foolishly.
  CLIFFORD. Now, Richard, I am with thee here alone.
  And summer's green all girded up in sheaves
    Draws those heaven-moving pearls from his poor eyes,
    And prosperous be thy life in peace and war!          [Dies]
    My noble partners and myself thus pray:
    That talk'd of her have talk'd amiss of her.
    Hugh Capet also, who usurp'd the crown
SCENE IV.
  GRIFFITH. This Cardinal,
    And thrift is blessing, if men steal it not.
  And to be praised of ages yet to be.
    Must be digested; give a favour from you,
    Puts back leave-taking, justles roughly by
    swear by that that not, you are not forsworn; no more was this

    To saucy doubts and fears -But Banquo's safe?
  Creating every bad a perfect best
  PANDARUS. Why, he is very young, and yet will he within three pound
                              He throws the bottle at him. Exit.
  AUTOLYCUS. I will trust you. Walk before toward the sea-side; go on
    Methinks I hear him now; his plausive words
  PROTEUS. Indeed a sheep doth very often stray,
    And I had that which any inferior might
    conquest of thy fury. Wert thou bear, thou wouldst be kill'd by
  ENOBARBUS. Under a compelling occasion, let women die. It were pity


    Avaunt, thou hateful villain, get thee gone!
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. As much to you, good sister! Whither
    Two mightier troops than that the Dauphin led,

  SERVANT. A noble troop of strangers-
    Compact with her that's gone, think'st thou thy oaths,
  TITUS. I am not mad, I know thee well enough:
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Let my master in, Luce.
    Dost it enforcedly. Thou'dst courtier be again
  POLIXENES.  [Discovering himself]  Mark your divorce, young sir,
    Or, wanting that, with tears distill'd by moans.
    This viperous slander enters. What cheer, madam?
  NESTOR. [Aside] And yet he loves himself: is't not strange?
    Lo, here, this long-usurped royalty
  SHYLOCK. What, what, what? Ill luck, ill luck?
    Of many a bold one, whose kinsmen have made suit

    There is enough written upon this earth
  Dissuade one foolish heart from serving thee,
    When he is fit and seasoned for his passage?  
  Of whom I hope to make much benefit;
  MESSENGER. News, my good lord, from Rome.
    I, from the orient to the drooping west,
    Your lack of love or bounty, you were straited  
     In your dear Highness' love.  
  ANTONY. Be it so,
      welcome,
  WARWICK. And I choose Clarence only for Protector.
    Not only my success in Libya, sir,
  Leon. We'll have dancing afterward.
  Rom. Then plainly know my heart's dear love is set
    And pour'd them down before him.
    Their perch, and not their terror.
  PETER. Would lie were here, my lord! For he indeed

  MACBETH. Still it cried, "Sleep no more!" to all the house;
    And thou shalt read when mine begin to dazzle.        Exeunt

    But yet a woman; and for secrecy,
  ROSALIND. Ay, be so, good Touchstone. Look you, who comes here, a
    I will resolve you herein presently.                    Exit
  KING JOHN. A grave.
    By moonshine did these lovers think no scorn
     Will close the eye of anguish.

  IMOGEN, daughter to Cymbeline by a former queen
  A ROMAN HERALD
    Clock to itself, knew the true minute when
  Fool. If I gave them all my living, I'ld keep my coxcombs myself.
  IAGO. It is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the
  BLANCH. Upon thy wedding-day?  
                         Enter BUCKINGHAM
  PAROLLES. O Lord, sir, let me live, or let me see my death!
    you, and keep you, and heal your pate.
  PETRUCHIO. Why, this was moulded on a porringer;  
  DUKE. A creature unprepar'd, unmeet for death;
    By spells and medicines bought of mountebanks;
    As brings a thousand-fold more care to keep
  DUKE. At nine i' the morning here we'll meet again.
    old man and no honester than I.
  But like a sad slave stay and think of nought
    his examination; if he do not, for the promise of his life and in
    with frowning looks, I'll sauce her with bitter words. Why look
1598
  CAIUS. Ay, be gar, and 'tis a boy; be gar, I'll raise all
    For thou exists on many a thousand grains

    With which such scathful grapple did he make
    As done. Perseverance, dear my lord,
    Must have that thanks from Rome after the measure
  SLENDER. Nay, I will do as my cousin Shallow says; I pray
  MARIANA. You have not been inquir'd after; I have sat here all day.
    Which first perchance she'll prove on cats and dogs,
  PROTEUS. Villain, forbear.
  ROSALIND. But why did he swear he would come this morning, and
    And truly, I'll devise some honest slanders
    Thou hast thy mistress still; to boot, my son,
     Is your lady come?
    The Duke is very strangely gone from hence;  

  Hor. [aside] His purse is empty already. All's golden words are
  MORTIMER. Enough; my soul shall then be satisfied.
     mad yeoman that sees his son a gentleman before him.
     Else one self mate and mate could not beget  
    And that great minds, of partial indulgence
    Yet did you say 'Go forth'; and none of this,
    Held me in chase, that I was forc'd to wheel
    May happily bring forth. But who comes here?
    manner of wrenching the true cause the false way. It is not a  
    Take notice, lords, he has a loyal breast,
    lost?
  My name be buried where my body is,
    When your false masters eat of my lord's meat?

    Lo, this is all- nay, yet depart not so;
  CONSTABLE. Tut! I have the best armour of the world.
    That oft in field, with targe and shield, did make my foe to
    tongue tang with arguments of state; put thyself into the trick
    Wrong hath but wrong, and blame the due of blame.          Exeunt
                Re-enter PISANIO, with the clothes  
    Myself-a prince by fortune of my birth,  
    But 'tis no matter; thou shalt bring him to me
    For you the city, thus I turn my back;
  GARDENER. Hold thy peace.
     I shall not be his wife.

    Whose bookish rule hath pull'd fair England down.       Exit
    Of unrelenting Clifford and the Queen,
  GAOLERS, to Mortimer
    Even at that news he dies; and then the hearts
    With thy unworthiness, thou diest. Away!
    Shall do and undo as him pleaseth best.
  Ant. Here comes the Prince and Claudio hastily.
    That I have done for you.
    The word is short, but not so short as sweet;
     I'll not be there.
    shook their heads; but for mine own part, it was Greek to me. I
  RICHARD. Oft have I seen a hot o'er weening cur

    than a man swear he loves me.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Ay, ay, he told his mind upon mine ear.
    Unto my father and my uncle Marcus.
  KING EDWARD. Alas, poor Clarence! Is it for a wife
  Knew vows were ever brokers to defiling;

    A better witness back than words, which we,
    And posts, like the commandment of a king,
     everything. 'Tis a lie- I am not ague-proof.
  Beat. It appears not in this confession. There's not one wise man
    Else with the like I had requited him.
    Which I respect not. I did send to you
    How many cowards, whose hearts are all as false
    sleeping wolf.
    I am gone for ever.                  Exit, pursued by a bear
    And if no gentleman, why then no arms.
    Die of this folly.                          Exit, with LORDS
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    wound our modesty, and make foul the clearness of our deservings,
    His answer was, the people were not used
  MOTH, fairy
  OLIVIA. I do I know not what, and fear to find
    [To CAMILLO]  I'll hear you by and by.
  CASSIUS. Brutus, bait not me,
  METELLUS. Is there no voice more worthy than my own,
     And, in conclusion, to oppose the bolt
    Doth limp behind the substance. Here's the scroll,
    And none of them been worn; and, for a name,
    That Harry Duke of Hereford, Rainold Lord Cobham,
    And what is mine my love shall render him;
    And confident from foreign purposes-
    Such and no other than event doth form it;
    Peace, Tranio!  
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I do obey thee till I give thee bail.
    In recompense whereof he hath married her.
  CRESSIDA. No matter.
  PRINCE. Well, thus we play the fools with the time, and the spirits

    water in an urinal, that not an eye that sees you but is a
    To see the statue of our queen. Your gallery


  KING HENRY. It was ourself thou didst abuse.
    To live a barren sister all your life,
  FALSTAFF. Master Gower, shall I entreat you with me to dinner?
    Incertain lookers-on. What were more holy
    Above the felon or what trespass else.
  KING PHILIP. Peace be to England, if that war return
           Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD, attended; LADY
    But the true ground of all these piteous woes
  KING HENRY. Your wondrous rare description, noble Earl,
    come far behind him; let them take heed of Troilus, I can tell
  PROSPERO. A devil, a born devil, on whose nature
    Yet can I not of such tame patience boast
    Confusion's near; I cannot speak. You tribunes
  PETRUCHIO. Why, what's a moveable?
    He would have dropp'd his knife, and fell asleep,

    Her feet were much too dainty for such tread!
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Perhaps you mark'd not what's the pith of all.
    Small curs are not regarded when they grin,

  HORNER. And I accept the combat willingly.
    Why should I joy in any abortive birth?
    And. He shall kill two of us, and men indeed
        And slaves they are to me, that send them flying.

  QUEEN ELIZABETH. It is determin'd, not concluded yet;
  Playing patient sports in unconstrained gyves!
    Into whose hand I give thy life.
    My fortunes to your service, which are here
  ISABELLA. Adoptedly, as school-maids change their names

    Speak and look back, and pry on every side,
    So well, nothing so well; no, nor mean better.

    Resolve on this: thou shalt be fortunate
  CINNA. All but Metellus Cimber, and he's gone
  Traveller. Come, neighbour.  
Alexandria. CLEOPATRA'S palace

    More laud than gilt o'er-dusted.
                Enter the MESSENGER as before
    There did he pause; but let me tell the world,
    Lay not your blame on me. If you have lost him,

    My great profaneness 'gainst thine oracle.
    And here I stand, both to impeach and purge
  FRANCIS FEEBLE
  KING HENRY. Henry the Fourth by conquest got the crown.
    For Oberon is passing fell and wrath,
  LADY MACBETH. Only look up clear;
  CATESBY. You shall, my lord.
    Quickly, to him, and excuse his throwing into the water,
    With those that have offended. Like a shepherd
    What you have said and show yourselves true Romans.
    Your colt's tooth is not cast yet.
  SUFFOLK. Peace, headstrong Warwick!
    When time is broke and no proportion kept!

    Pity not honour'd age for his white beard:
  Hor. I warr'nt it will.
                                                         Exeunt.
    If thou wilt fight, fight by thy father's side;
    To counsel deaf, but not to flattery!                   Exit
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  WILLIAM. Which he, sir?
    sighs for thee. Remember who commended thy yellow stockings, and
  TOWNSMAN. A miracle! A miracle!
    To ease your country of distressful war,  
  IAGO. I grant indeed it hath not appeared, and your suspicion is
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. He that hath miss'd the Princess is a thing  
    Thou, and thou, and thou. You have serv'd me well,
    A thousand complete courses of the sun!
  EGLAMOUR. The sun begins to gild the western sky,
    First, for I cannot flatter thee in pride;  
  SLY. For God's sake, a pot of small ale.
    But half my lay thoughts in him, some of these
    With all my imperfections on my head.
  SCALES. Such aid as I can spare you shall command,
    Nor shall not now; for in companions
                             EPILOGUE.
  O, that sad breath his spongy lungs bestowed,
    Which the eye fears, when it is done, to see.          Exit.
  PHILOSTRATE, Master of the Revels to Theseus
    I promised your Grace a hunter's peal.
    Awake thee.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    You should have been respective and have kept it.
  PAGE. Marry, my lord, Althaea dreamt she was delivered of a
  DAVY. Here, sir.
    Treason has done his worst; nor steel, nor poison,
  ACHILLES. Derive this; come.
  Beat. Why, how now, cousin? Wherefore sink you down?


    To hide thee from prevention.
    Is perjured to the bosom? Proteus,
  CRESSIDA. Adieu, uncle.
    Either in hope or present, I'd exchange

    A gallant prize? Ha, cousin, is it not?

    walls, a pretty slight drollery, or the story of the Prodigal, or
  FERDINAND. My language? Heavens!
    them whence you come; who you are and what you would are out of
    you'll be rotten ere you be half ripe, and that's the right
    Upon my life, Petruchio means but well,
  IAGO.                                       What's the matter?
  ALCIBIADES. Call'st thou that harm?
  LAUNCE. I care not for that neither, because I love crusts.
    Consort with me in loud and dear petition,
  ALL. Good morrow, General.
ACT V SCENE 3.

    His well-proportion'd beard made rough and rugged,
    You know that I held Epicurus strong,
    Courses as swift as thought in every power,
    It did me good before the palace gate
    They are too thin and bare to hide offences.
    without three good friends; that the property of rain is to wet,
    I am amaz'd, methinks, and lose my way
                                                    [Exit Page.]
    Prove armed soldiers, ere her native king
  CYMBELINE. How now, my flesh? my child?
    And buzz lamenting doings in the air!
  MARIANA. No, my lord.
    'leven-pence farthing better; most sweet gardon! I will do it,
  LAUNCE. What need a man care for a stock with a wench, when she can
  These two Antipholus', these two so like,
    master, for a jewel- the juvenal, the Prince your master, whose  
    Excuse it not, for I am peremptory.
    And he repents not that he pays your debt;
  PROSPERO. Ye elves of hills, brooks, standing lakes, and
    To speak of Perdita, now grown in grace
  VIOLA. Nay, that's certain; they that dally nicely with words may
  ROSALINE. Your absence only.
    Told thee no lies, made thee no mistakings, serv'd  
    His sons, he says, shall give their words for him.  
    And for the day confin'd to fast in fires,
    Bring me just notice of the numbers dead  
  AENEAS. That I assure you:
    For breathing in their faces; beat the ground


    That wear those colours on them. What art thou
    Did he suspire, that light and weightless down
  LEONTES. Stay your thanks a while,
  ACHILLES. Of this my privacy
    From off this brier pluck a white rose with me.


    We owe thee much! Within this wall of flesh
    I am resolv'd that thou shalt spend some time
    They are rising, they are rising.
    The levied succours that should lend him aid,
    I bought an unction of a mountebank,
    Stand to me in this cause. O mother! wife!
    Thy unused beauty must be tombed with thee,
  MACBETH. Here's our chief guest.
    To make her come, and know her keeper's call,
Capulet's orchard.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Of princely fellows, shalt hereafter find
    Intended 'gainst Lord Angelo- came I hither
  CHARMIAN. Good, sir, give me good fortune.
  Rom. One, gentlewoman, that God hath made for himself to mar.
    insensible; a getter of more bastard children than war's a
           Or a dog that seems a-sleeping,
    Tell our devotion with revengeful arms?
    Who then but English Henry will be lord,
  ACHILLES. Ha! known!
    That she should feel the smart of this? The Cardinal
    It was the pleasure of my lord the King.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Sway'd from the point by looking down on Caesar.
    Dukes; it is no time to discourse. The town is beseech'd, and the
SCENE III.
    Call in the messengers. As I am Egypt's Queen,
  COUNTESS. Tell me thy reason why thou wilt marry.
  LORD. Here in your city; I now came from him.
    he took up my legs sometime, yet I made shift to cast him.
and their trains
    Hast strangely stood the test; here, afore heaven,
    And death once dead, there's no more dying then.
    Lord of his reason. What though you fled

    choose but weep to think they would lay him i' th' cold ground.
    Because I cannot flatter and look fair,

    With sighs of love that costs the fresh blood dear.
    Why he hath made the ewe bleat for the lamb;
  ACHILLES. I'll heat his blood with Greekish wine to-night,
  MOTH. I will tell you sensibly.
  Thy self thy foe, to thy sweet self too cruel:
  ROSALINE. Help, hold his brows! he'll swoon! Why look you pale?
    Garnish'd like him, that for a tricksy word
    Study knows that which yet it doth not know.
          Enter BLACKAMOORS music, MOTH as Prologue, the
    But just a pound of flesh; if thou tak'st more
    So is my love still telling what is told.
  LORENZO. Who calls?
  SHEPHERD. I know not, an't like you.
  ANTONY. Now, sirrah, you do wish yourself in Egypt?
    Our ranks are broke, and ruin follows us.  
    And gave his countenance, against his name,
    Slept in his face, and rend'red such aspect
    Whose wat'ry arch and messenger am I,
    I had a husband, till a Richard kill'd him:
    I could have better spar'd a better man.
  She that doth call me husband, even my soul
  Prince. Dost thou speak like a king? Do thou stand for me, and I'll
    Unto their losses twenty thousand crowns;
    We tread upon, and never think of it.
    And sing our bondage freely.
    I do confess the vices of my blood,
  FENTON. Sir, will you hear me?
    If this sweet lady lie not guiltless here
SCENE:
    But, O, thy wife!
    There is my purse to cure that blow of thine.
  DORCAS.    Me too! Let me go thither
  POSTHUMUS. Most welcome, bondage! for thou art a way,
    The mathematics and the metaphysics,  
  CASSIO. She is indeed perfection.
  Glou. Here is better than the open air; take it thankfully. I will
    Upon example; so the spirit is eased;
    You never spoke what did become you less
  THIRD CITIZEN. We have power in ourselves to do it, but it is a
  ARVIRAGUS. Nor no witchcraft charm thee!
    The King your father is dispos'd to sleep.

    Whether those peals of praise be his or no;
    My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
  KING HENRY. Stay, Humphrey Duke of Gloucester; ere thou go,
  IAGO. Well, go to, very well.

    If to preserve this vessel for my lord
  SUFFOLK. Who is there? [Enter servant] Take this fellow in, and
ACT I. Scene I.
  BIANCA. I must believe my master; else, I promise you,

    And swell his sail with thine own powerful breath,
  Laid by his side his heart-inflaming brand,
  KING EDWARD. Ay, but thou canst do what I mean to ask.
  COUNTESS. Parolles, was it not?
  NERISSA. Shall they see us?
  CASSIO.              Pardon me, Bianca.
  GLOUCESTER. Good counsel, marry; learn it, learn it, Marquis.
    Appear there for a man. Speak not against it;

<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  YORK. So triumph thieves upon their conquer'd booty;
    Abate thy rage, great duke.
    After well-ent'red soldiers, to return
    But what's that Pucelle whom they term so pure?
  PUCK.      Now the hungry lion roars,
  Prince. Pray God you have not murd'red some of them.
    Ajax is grown self-will'd and bears his head

    coward, this bed-presser, this horseback-breaker, this huge hill
  CASCA. Why, you were with him, were you not?
    Of Lewis the Dauphin and that lovely maid.
  AUTOLYCUS. Prosper you, sweet sir!                  Exit CLOWN
    And I will stoop and humble my intents
  And for that riches where is my deserving?
  FIRST LORD. By his great authority;
  SOMERSET. And on my side it is so well apparell'd,
    Above a number-if my actions
    now I remember me, his name is Falstaff. If that man should be
  Who leaves unswayed the likeness of a man,
  IAGO. She gives it out that you shall marry her.
    It can do me no damage'; adding further
  Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
    The morning's danger; and their gesture sad
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  King. But I have sent for him to answer this;
    I bear my sweet Bianca, if I can by any means light on a fit man

  CLOWN. Where, good Mistress Mary?
    praise of our country mistresses; this gentleman at that time
  POLIXENES. By my white beard,
    Which if we find outweighs ability,
  Queen. it may be, very like.

    teaches him to hick and to hack, which they'll do fast
    For who liv'd King, but I could dig his grave?
    To keep with you at meals, comfort your bed,
    And our oppression hath made up this league.
      Earl of Gloucester.
    There were so many-whom she may accuse.
    But dreadful war shall answer his demand.  
    To you and toward your friend; whose love had spoke,
  YORK. Tut, tut!
         NEIGHBOURS, drinking to him so much that he is

    When nature brought him to the door of death?
    me. Ha, ha, ha!
  And thereupon I drew my sword on you,
    When that he bids good morrow with such spirit.
  PISTOL. Me a groat!
  BAPTISTA. Why, sir, you know this is your wedding-day.
    it a-work; and learning, a mere hoard of gold kept by a devil
  BELARIUS. To th' field, to th' field!
    The tide of this most renowned duke,
    That had to him deriv'd your anger did
    Ye men of Cyprus, let her have your knees.
    They know their master loves to be aloft,
    A villain kills my father; and for that,
A bedchamber in the castle. Desdemona in bed asleep; a light burning.
    King. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;  
    Forbidden late to carry any weapon,
    Who's here? Speak, ho! No answer? What is this?
  Poins. But, my lads, my lads, to-morrow morning, by four o'clock

    Think that I am unking'd by Bolingbroke,  
    I am my father's heir and only son;
  ISABELLA. Could great men thunder
    But that my coat is better than thou know'st;
    That you do see? Could thought, without this object,
    Because that I am more than common tall,
    dared.
SCENE IV.
  ACHILLES. Good morrow.
    Where none will sweat but for promotion,
  Greg. But thou art not quickly moved to strike.
  Jul. Feeling so the loss,
    tent-
    But now I am past all comforts here, but prayers.
  KING EDWARD. How many children hast thou, widow, tell me.
    Or doth this churlish superscription
    And never whilst I live deceive men so;
    I have no further gone in this than by
      On wholesome life usurp immediately.


    But, stay. I smell a man of middle earth.
  Claud. If there be any impediment, I pray you discover it.
  CHARLES. There's no news at the court, sir, but the old news; that
  ORLEANS. Your mistress bears well.
    "These are their reasons; they are natural":
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  ENOBARBUS. Yes, something you can deny for your own safety: you
  SPEED. 'Item: She is slow in words.'
                      Enter one with an OFFICER
  FALSTAFF. You must excuse me, Master Robert Shallow.
    Ere you can say she's honest. But be't known,  
  OLIVIA. [To FABIAN] Read it you, sirrah.

    Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
    That many maz'd considerings did throng
    Dangerous conceits are in their natures poisons,
    To purge this field of, such a hilding foe;
    Full fifteen hundred, besides common men.
    Will sate itself in a celestial bed
    In a bad quarrel slain a virtuous son.
    In Cleopatra's sails their nests. The augurers

    Lies foul with chaw'd grass, still and motionless;
  CHARMIAN. Behold, sir.                                    Exit
    No higher than thyself, the judge's clerk;
  LUCIUS. Sweet father, cease your tears; for at your grief
  SILVIA. And duty never yet did want his meed.
  FLAVIUS. Hence, home, you idle creatures, get you home.
SCENE III.
  SICINIUS. Go call the people,  [Exit AEDILE]  in whose name myself  
  'Where is the thousand marks I gave thee, villain?'
    From lowest place when virtuous things proceed,

  CLARENCE. What? what?
     A man, a prince, by him so benefited!  
                        Enter a GENTLEMAN
    And in this mood will give us anything.
    How oft hast thou with perjury cleft the root!
  CAPUCIUS. Madam, the same-your servant.
  Which for memorial still with thee shall stay.
    Whiles thus you mock it! how, in stripping it,
    Adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs;
  ANTONIO. Your worth is very dear in my regard.
    Lamenting some enforced chastity.
    Of your profession? Speak, what trade art thou?
  Those children nursed, delivered from thy brain,
    Such is the fulness of my heart's content.
    Where Brutus may but find it; and throw this  
  YORK. Take away his weapon. Fellow, thank God, and the good wine in
     Witness the world that I create thee here
    He's bravely taken here. He stole from France,
    May unfold me to him; there stand I in much peril.

    Show your wisdom, daughter, in your close patience,
    Do thoughts unveil in their dumb cradles.
    Abate throw at novum, and the whole world again
  And the sad augurs mock their own presage,
    To intercept this inconvenience,
  You sent me to the bay, sir, for a bark.
  MESSENGER. Bless you, fair dame! I am not to you known,
    As to thy friends- for when did friendship take
    And, for because the world is populous
    I cannot speak him home. He stopp'd the fliers,
    hear them unfolded, turn another into the register of your
    them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I
                          Enter PUCK

     Of this child-changed father!
    Which is so serious. Let us bury him,
    neck. A fire, good Curtis.
    But what is like me formerly.
  KING HENRY. May I with right and conscience make this claim?
  DEMETRIUS. These things seem small and undistinguishable,
  ORLEANS. He never did harm that I heard of.
    How near the tidings of our comfort is.
    Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
    Do kiss the most exalted shores of all.
    firago. I had a pass with him, rapier, scabbard, and all, and he
  SILVIA. The more shame for him that he sends it me;
    clerestories toward the south north are as lustrous as ebony; and
    By any livelihood he show'd to-day?
                                                   Exit [Edgar].
    Delight in them sets off; some kinds of baseness
  DEMETRIUS. Chiron, thy years wants wit, thy wits wants edge
    music.
  Ham. Come on, sir.
    Come, gentle night; come, loving, black-brow'd night;
    Than you can put us to't.
  PERDITA. Even here undone!
            Then sigh not so, &c.
    Th' allusion holds in the exchange.
  PAROLLES. What the devil should move me to undertake the recovery
  DUKE. Most notedly, sir.
    The one's for use, the other useth it.
    Into a rapture lets her baby cry
    Of both the Sicils and Jerusalem,
  And yet would herein others' eyes were worse.
    Some welcome for the mistress of the house.
Enter, severally, WARWICK, and the LORD CHIEF JUSTICE
    have not deserved nobly.
  AUTOLYCUS. O, good sir, tenderly, O!
    Receive the blood; and when that they are dead,  
                                                     Exit Romeo.
       Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, [Guildenstern,] and others.
    you have studied your questions.
    Is torn from forth that pretty hollow cage,  
    Betimes i' th' morn I'll call you at your house;
  FORD. Ay, I do so.
    he hath heard that men of few words are the best men, and
    of Time as well as a clock.
    My spirit from mine eyes! There is my dagger,
    Woo contrary, deceiv'd by these removes.
    And let thy blows, doubly redoubled,
    Assisted by that most disloyal traitor
     Bold in the quarrel's right, rous'd to th' encounter,
    Flatt'ring himself in project of a power
    Ah, kill me with thy weapon, not with words!
ADRIANA. Look when I serve him so, he takes it ill.
    such another encounter, which lames report to follow it and
    Their drenched natures lie as in a death,
    And I do stand engag'd to many Greeks,
  BRUTUS. Lucius!
      it.
    the foul-mouth'dst rogue in England.
    May this, almost a miracle, be done?  
    kind fellow, gavest thyself away gratis; and I thank thee for
  Are penitent for your default to-day.

    pate full of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more of
    That have by marriage made thy daughter mine,  
    Wrinkles Apollo's, and makes stale the morning.
    By his attorneys-general to sue
    and is he a man to encounter Tybalt?
    Where you have never come- or sent it us
  Mer. Thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.
  DOLABELLA. Most noble Empress, you have heard of me?
    And slain in fight many of your enemies;
    Antony yet.
    But, being mask'd, he was not sure of it;
  ARTHUR. Mercy on me!
    my husband he is now here; and hath drawn him and the
  BAPTISTA. Gentlemen, importune me no farther,
    Accept my thankfulness.
    That valour is the chiefest virtue and
    is a friend to Alencon and an enemy to our person; if thou

PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    money in thy purse. It cannot be that Desdemona should long
    Keep Hector company an hour or two.
    With language that would make me spurn the sea,
    That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
    For me as for you?
  KING EDWARD. Brother of Gloucester, at Saint Albans' field
  MONTJOY. No, great King;
    He is their god; he leads them like a thing
                        Enter Blunt.
    Whom I with pain have woo'd and won thereto;
    Should be the father of some stratagem.  
  Prince. Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?
    Divers and dangerous; which are heresies,
      me,
    As once to our mother; use like note and words,
    A sea of melting pearl, which some call tears;
    Or that the negligence may well be laugh'd at,
    Your Grace hath ta'en great pains to qualify
    My duty pricks me on to utter that
    Forswear themselves as often as they speak.
    King Henry
    Against whose fury and unmatched force
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Beshrew your heart,
  HERMIA. Never so weary, never so in woe,
    That we can let our beard be shook with danger,
    Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Of Bolingbroke. Their fortunes both are weigh'd.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    The greatest is behind. [To Ross and Angus] Thanks for your

  COMINIUS. Come, come, we'll prompt you.  
    The pretty-vaulting sea refus'd to drown me,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    to hear the fear of Got, and not to hear a riot; take your
  HERMIA. I pray thee, tell me then that he is well.
    Therefore, when merchant-like I sell revenge,
    Whose mother was her painting, hath betray'd him.

    And after many scorns, many foul taunts,
    Are much deceiv'd; for they did swear you did.
    Since I suppose we are made to be no stronger
    I hope you will consider what is spoke
    Say that the last I spoke was 'Antony'
    Thus with my hat, and sigh, and say amen,
    A sister driven into desp'rate terms,

    That all but we enjoy. For how can we,
A public place.
  PAINTER. How shall I understand you?
    And, having France thy friend, thou shalt not dread
    I'll frown, and be perverse, and say thee nay,
    As gardeners do with ordure hide those roots
  Jul. If they do see thee, they will murther thee.  
                   Enter COSTARD, armed for POMPEY
    Hath Death lain with thy wife. See, there she lies,
    hundred years.
    Fixing it only here; should I, damn'd then,
  KING JOHN. Do not I know thou wouldst?
        LEONATUS, father to POSTHUMUS, an old man attired
    O, handle not the theme, to talk of hands,
    I know their complot is to have my life;
    A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
    occupation, if I would not have taken him at a word, I would I  
    Did steal behind him as he lay along

  HABERDASHER. Here is the cap your worship did bespeak.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    He followed you; for love I followed him;
  TOUCHSTONE.   For a taste:
  GRATIANO. The woman falls; sure, he hath kill'd his wife.
    And now, young lords, was't not a happy star
    To leave the city and commit yourself
    fiend. 'For the heavens, rouse up a brave mind' says the fiend
  SECOND LORD. No more than a fish loves water. Is not this a strange
    I could give better comfort than you do.
  SPEED.  [Nodding]  Ay.

  GHOST.  [To RICHARD]  Let me sit heavy in thy soul
    Young fry of treachery!

    I caus'd you write yet sent away?
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Thy mother took into her blameful bed
    Watching breeds leanness, leanness is an gaunt.
  DUMAIN. Some salve for perjury.
    Tell them there I have gold; look, so I have.
  Hot. Well, I am school'd. Good manners be your speed!
  FLAVIUS. It is vain that you would speak with Timon;
    Are you mov'd, my lord?
    A woman mov'd is like a fountain troubled-
  SHYLOCK. No, none that thou hast wit enough to make.  
    To let thy tongue detect thy base-born heart?
London. Before the Tower
    His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
    Our sport shall be to take what they mistake;
  Cap. Why, how now, kinsman? Wherefore storm you so?
  LADY MACBETH. Infirm of purpose!
    Where be these warders that they wait not here?
    of this land-service, I did not come.
    From London by the King was I press'd forth;
    Do as the heavens have done: forget your evil;
    As did the fatal brand Althaea burnt

  KATHERINA. What, will you not suffer me? Nay, now I see  

  THIRD MURTHERER. Macbeth.
    via!
  BOYET. Full merrily
    Than these two creatures. Which is Sebastian?
                    Enter Macbeth.
    Music.
    Than thine own gladness that thou art employ'd.
    Hang those that talk of fear. Give me mine armor.
               and Gentlewomen to the Maskers.  
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Tell me what state, what dignity, what honour,
  GLOUCESTER. The gates are open, let us enter too.

    'Tis not the land I care for, wert thou thence;
                 Enter ANTONIO and OFFICERS
  PEDANT. God save you, sir!
    And to this false plague are they now transferred.
    Such noble fury in so poor a thing;
    And brings the dire occasion in his arms

     The question of Cordelia and her father
  SATURNINUS. Go take him away, and hang him presently.
    To look upon the holy sun, to have
    thee. I will not say, Pity me: 'tis not a soldier-like phrase;
  Queen. What would she have?
    Sweats in the eye of Pheebus, and all night
                       SONG
    We are reconcil'd, and the first view shall kill
  FLORIZEL. Hark, Perdita.                     [Takes her aside]
  DUKE. O thou dissembling cub! What wilt thou be,  
  DEMETRIUS. Relent, sweet Hermia; and, Lysander, yield  
  MARIANA. Come, let's return again, and suffice ourselves with the
  LUCETTA. As of a knight well-spoken, neat, and fine;
    All adoration, duty, and observance,
    I have not slept one wink.
    His noble jury and foul cause can witness.
    Let me see: a fat l'envoy; ay, that's a fat goose.
    Sliver'd in the moon's eclipse,
    Adam fell; and what should poor Jack Falstaff do in the days of
    Of stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled;
  OLIVIA. It is the more like to be feigned; I pray you keep it in. I
    beauty's a flower. The lady bade take away the fool; therefore, I
THE END
    To kindle cowards and to steel with valor
  LORD. We'll show thee lo as she was a maid
    With scarfs and fans and double change of brav'ry.
  WESTMORELAND. But there's a saying, very old and true:
  DUKE SENIOR. Go find him out.
  SEBASTIAN. I am sorry, madam, I have hurt your kinsman;
    Is to receive our duties, and our duties

  In polished form of well refined pen.
  LADY MACBETH. What's to be done?
    That he cried out 'twould be a sight indeed
  GLOUCESTER.  [Viewing the superscription]  What means his
    the remembrance of such places, and goes to them by his
  PROTEUS. Who then? his spirit?
      An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope,
  SHALLOW. By the mass, I was call'd anything; and I would have done
    Besides- I ha' not since put up my sword-
    the behalf of his friend. And I'll swear to the Prince thou art a
    And each one to his office when he wakes.
and a FORESTER
    'Tis deepest winter in Lord Timon's purse;
  DUCHESS. Yet one word more- grief boundeth where it falls,
    holy bread.
    Turn back and fly, like ships before the wind,
    And much I need to help you, were there need.
    That left the camp to sin in Lucrece' bed?
    them come in; but quickly now.
    We are a queen, or long have dream'd so, certain
    Hermes.
    This island's mine, by Sycorax my mother,
  HELENA. If she be very well, what does she ail that she's not very
    And graves have yawn'd, and yielded up their dead;

    Falstaff.
  Lords, Officers, Sheriff, Vintner, Chamberlain, Drawers, two
    Thou hast said well; for some of you there present
    Could not so mope.
    The fam'd Cassibelan, who was once at point-
  HOST. What say you to young Master Fenton? He capers,
  PORTIA. You know I say nothing to him, for he understands not me,
    If that our noble father were alive?
    Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice.
    This is not strong enough to be believ'd
    Good night- but go not to my uncle's bed.
    As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine,
    Shall show more goodly and attract more eyes
    I'm sure, in me.
  IAGO. Do you hear, Cassio?  
  KING RICHARD. Why, then thou hast it. Two deep enemies,
    then shall Posthumus end his miseries, Britain be fortunate
    Thisby!
  SHYLOCK. Till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond,
    Why does the world report that Kate doth limp?
    Doth want example; who hath read or heard
    From any private malice in his end,
    Did not go forth of us, 'twere all alike

  THIRD CITIZEN. Then, masters, look to see a troublous
    But, sirrah, not for my sake but your master's, I advise
    Had squar'd me to thy counsel! Then, even now,
    Away, Sir Corporal Nym.
  ULYSSES. No trumpet answers.
  PARIS. Hector, Deiphobus, Helenus, Antenor, and all the gallantry


  GONZALO. I do well believe your Highness; and did it to
    mine.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
      to the last two, who likewise observe the same order;
    Thy deeds inhuman and unnatural
    John lays you plots; the times conspire with you;
    I see thy fury; if I longer stay
  WOLSEY. Good Lord Chamberlain,
    So dear in heart not to deny her that  

  KING. She does abuse our ears; to prison with her.
  FIRST KEEPER. No;
    In the old time of war, would shake the press,
    But with his last attempt he wip'd it out,
  AENEAS. Therefore Achilles. But whate'er, know this:
    The earth that's nature's mother is her tomb.
  Didst thou deliver to me on the mart.
    Dove-drawn with her. Here thought they to have done
  CRESSIDA. Hark! a word in your ear.
    And he hath bought the cottage and the bounds
    He hath a stern look but a gentle heart.
                Pleading for a lover's fee;
  That flame through water which their hue encloses.
  And gilded honour shamefully misplaced,
                      Enter CLOTEN
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. When he was brought again to th' bar to hear


            Enter Hecate to the other three Witches.
    A king, woe's slave, shall kingly woe obey.
  MENENIUS. Why, 'tis no great matter; for a very little thief of
                                   [Exeunt others of the Watch.]

  MACBETH. See, they encounter thee with their hearts' thanks.
  MIRANDA. No wonder, sir;
  POMPEY. A tapster, a poor widow's tapster.
    business in a main danger fail you.
    No more of that. I pray you, in your letters,
  PUCELLE. Dauphin, I am by birth a shepherd's daughter,
    I thank thee, Moon, for shining now so bright;

    Of these known evils but to give me leave
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  DICK. Nay, 'tis too true; therefore he shall be king.
    With all the learned Council of the realm,
    Which I have bettered rather than decreas'd.
    And doth impeach the freedom of the state,  
    And so am I for Phebe.
    She has deceived her father, and may thee.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    up wrong. Art thou not ashamed?
    itself- a devilish knave! Besides, the knave is handsome, young,
    You that are King, though he do wear the crown,

    The worth of that, is that which it contains,
                                 [Exit. [supported by Benvolio].
    outside of his hand, and no more ado. Remember- ston'd and flay'd

    Live in your country here in banishment
    past.
  SERVANT. Thus, Brutus, did my master bid me kneel,
    That we at our own charge shall ransom straight
    Which I do last pronounce, is, O you wonder!
    come; I'll take my leave of the Jew in the twinkling.
    But none of 'em can be found. Stand! who's there?
    That would reduce these bloody days again
    Unfought withal, but I will sell my dukedom
    But neither my good word nor princely favour;
    I could afflict you farther.
    What too curious dreg espies my sweet lady in the fountain of our
    PLEBEIANS. Down with him! down with him!
    I am the son of Henry the Fifth,
    Which he to seek of me again, perforce,  
    an hour.
    As I subscribe not that, nor any other,

  IAGO. Marry, heaven forbid!
                         and others.
    If over-boldly we have borne ourselves
  STEPHANO. Here; swear then how thou escap'dst.

    To his new kingdom of ne'er-changing night.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  CLEOPATRA. That time? O times
    To do observance to a morn of May,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    To weigh against his opposite; or else  
  BUCKINGHAM. Fie, what an indirect and peevish course
  LEONTES. Though I am satisfied, and need no more
    The eleventh of this month at Shrewsbury.
          Re-enter Macbeth and Lennox, with Ross.
    Titania, music call; and strike more dead
    I'll fish for thee, and get thee wood enough.
    A diminution in our captain's brain
    The pitfall nor the gin.
                     Enter [Oswald the] Steward.
  ALEXAS. Vex not his prescience; be attentive.
  Jul. I have.
    you may stay him.
  COMINIUS. Know, I pray you-
    England and Ireland, Anjou, Touraine, Maine,
    The immortal Jove's dread clamors counterfeit,
    makes a show'r of rain as well as Jove.
    good repute, carriage, bearing, and estimation.'
    You sway the motion of Demetrius' heart!
    Sends thee this word, that, if thou love thy sons,
    shoulders
  PISTOL.  [Aside]  This punk is one of Cupid's carriers;
    And wrinkled deep in time? Broad-fronted Caesar,
    We must bear all. O hard condition,
    Under my poor instructions yet must suffer
    And, among three, to love the worst of all,
  Pedro. Welcome, signior. You are almost come to part almost a fray.
                      Enter IACHIMO
    Of many kings. If there come truth from them

  MONTANO. But, good lieutenant, is your general wived?
    weep for him; as he was fortunate, I rejoice at it; as he was
    Better it were a brother died at once
  Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother.
    perfect gallows. Stand fast, good Fate, to his hanging;
  CLARENCE. No, Warwick, thou art worthy of the sway,
  LAUNCE. For fear thou shouldst lose thy tongue.
    We'll crave a parley to confer with him.
    And I will overhear their conference.  
    That late thou gavest me; for Mercutio's soul
    stone, and has no more pity in him than a dog. A Jew would have

  POMPEY. Your friends, sir; the hangman. You must be so good, sir,
    the name of foul clothes to Datchet Lane; they took me on
    When corn was given them gratis, you repin'd;
    The most you sought was her promotion,
    A landless knight makes thee a landed squire.
    And, lozel, thou art worthy to be hang'd
    But for the general. He would be crown'd:

    That it becomes a virtue.
  GLOUCESTER. Curse not thyself, fair creature; thou art both.
    What company, at what expense; and finding
  Prince. What, a hundred, man?
    I do not greatly care to be deceiv'd,
    By going to Achilles.
    enough. A plague upon it when thieves cannot be true one to
  ELBOW. For being a bawd, for being a bawd.
    With any passion of inflaming love,
  CAESAR. How foolish do your fears seem now, Calpurnia!
    I'll have no speaking; I will have my bond.             Exit
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Ay, marry, will we, sir! and we'll be waited on.
    Abhor it, fear it, do not enter it.
    Brooks no division. It will be thought
    So common-hackney'd in the eyes of men,
     and sometimes I am whipp'd for holding my peace. I had rather be
    See, and then speak yourselves.

  KING. What?
1604
    The envious barking of your saucy tongue
    Take heed, for heaven's sake take heed, lest at once
    To who shall find them.
    And being thus frighted, swears a prayer or two
    Than I have in this ring. 'Twas mine, 'twas Helen's,
    And see our moonlight revels, go with us;
    this pox! for the one or the other plays the rogue with my great
  LIEUTENANT. Yet I wish, sir-

    knavery to conceal it; and therein am I constant to my
  DESDEMONA, his wife
  Pet. No money, on my faith, but the gleek. I will give you the
  OTHELLO. I have a salt and sorry rheum offends me;
    That sings with piercing; do not touch my lord.
    Hail, noble Marcius!
    The King was weeping-ripe for a good word.
    Rich only to be wretched- thy great fortunes
  And folly (doctor-like) controlling skill,
Enter MISTRESS PAGE and ROBIN
  Horatio, friend to Hamlet.
    Should strike such terror to his enemies.
    Thy hounds shall make the welkin answer them
  BRUTUS. Alas, good Cassius, do not think of him.
    To want the bridegroom when the priest attends
    Warwick is Chancellor and the lord of Calais;
  But now is black beauty's successive heir,
  PERCY. Yes, my good lord,
    another thing she may, and that cannot I help. Well, proceed.
    To bloody thoughts and to revenge, I chose
    Because I cannot meet my Hermia.
    plebeians. I will be bold to take my leave of you.
    I mean, for your particular- you had not
    spied his eyes; and methought he had made two holes in the
  DUMAIN. A gallant lady! Monsieur, fare you well.          Exit
                                         [Laying down his sword]
  Laer. Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
    Thou that didst bear the key of all my counsels,
    That's thousand to one good one- when you now see
    To whose ingrate and unauspicious altars

  SILENCE. Ah, sirrah! quoth-a- we shall               [Singing]
    But yet you see how soon the day o'ercast.
    His father by as much as a performance
    grant you I was down, and out of breath, and so was he; but we
    To speak with you; may it please you to come down?
         Enter PERCY, With the BISHOP OF CARLISLE
    Dear life redeems you. You perceive she stirs.
SCENE IV.
    ground.
  BOYET. The heir of Alencon, Katharine her name.
    will desire; and seven hundred pounds of moneys, and
  And patience tame to sufferance bide each check,
    Leaving our rankness and irregular course,
    Does reason our petition with more strength
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  Beat. I pray you, is Signior Mountanto return'd from the wars or no?
    To Lydia and to Ionia,
Enter LUCIUS, IACHIMO, and the Roman army at one door, and the British army
Leonato's orchard.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    I saw Jove's bird, the Roman eagle, wing'd
  So shall those blots that do with me remain,
  Hor. A piece of him.
    ingenious, foolish, rascally knave. I do pity his distress
    grape, would open his lips when he put it into his mouth; meaning
    well met, and most glad of your company.
    But such a headstrong potent fault it is
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. As little joy, my lord, as you suppose
    And never going aright, being a watch,
                                                  Tucket within.
    To render up the great seal presently
  IAGO.                          Yet be content.
    sure.
    Swooning destruction; or some joy too fine,
  POMPEY. Bum, sir.
  HELENA. Do not you love him, madam?
    And the Queen's sons and brothers haught and proud;
    Whose shadow the dismissed bachelor loves,
  BRUTUS. Come, come, you are well understood to be a perfecter giber
  LORD. Farewell; you're angry.                             Exit
    Behold this pattern of thy butcheries.
    Lavinia, you are not displeas'd with this?
  SIWARD. Some must go off, and yet, by these I see,
  BARDOLPH. Be gone, good ancient; this will grow to a brawl anon.
    For she had eyes and chose me. No, Iago,
    It seems you are in haste. An if there be  
  Whilst I whom fortune of such triumph bars
    Sons, let it be your charge, as it is ours,
  ARMADO. How meanest thou? Brawling in French?
             Now it is the time of night
    For this was brief- I found them close together,
  John. Even she--Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. There is something in the wind, that we cannot get in.
  BRAKENBURY. I do beseech your Grace to pardon me, and
    And seal the title with a lovely kiss!
    As shall be prov'd upon you.
    Send succours, lords, and stop the rage betime,
  LYSANDER. Why should you think that I should woo in scorn?
    But such is the infection of the time
    the picture, she says, that you wot of. Master Ford, her
  FALSTAFF. It shows my earnestness of affection-
  Ham. Ay, sir, what of him?
  Upon thy part I can set down a story
  AENEAS. I have been seeking you this hour, my lord.  
    Why dost thou lead these men about the streets?
  Reg. Go thrust him out at gates, and let him smell
    pardon.
    flame-coloured taffeta, I see no reason why thou shouldst be so
    On Wednesday next, Harry, you shall set forward;
    Or Somerset or York, all's one to me.
    Master Ford, awake; awake, Master Ford. There's a hole

    Speak your griefs softly, I do know you well.
  CASSIUS. Messala,
    And make me blest to obey. I am brought hither  
    And sudden push gives them the overthrow.
    There, take the paper; see it be return'd;
    My heart is turn'd to stone; and while 'tis mine
  WINCHESTER. Gloucester, whate'er we like, thou art

    if you see him?
    And humbly thus, with halters on their necks,
  BIONDELLO. Faith, nothing; but has left me here behind to expound
    Between the promise of his greener days
    He started one poor heart of mine in thee.
     Your needful counsel to our business,
    To recompense your love. Doubt not but heaven
  BERTRAM. What is it, my good lord, the King languishes of?
    Wear it myself. Follow, good cousin Warwick;
    And but for ceremony, such a wretch,
    'Let not your sorrow die, though I am dead.'
          Learn more than thou trowest,
  MATTHEW GOFFE
     goes about the court, comes to the KING, and kneels  
ACT IV. SCENE I.
  CASSIUS. Be you content. Good Cinna, take this paper,
    To trash for over-topping, new created  
    Do you with cheeks abash'd behold our works
  We sicken to shun sickness when we purge.
     Thee o'er to harshness. Her eyes are fierce; but thine

  FLAMINIUS. I need not tell him that; he knows you are to diligent.
  COMINIUS. I tell you he does sit in gold, his eye
    As if thou were distraught and mad with terror?
  TYRREL. Please you;
    birth that differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horses are
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    I must have patience to endure the load;
    No judge indifferent, nor no more assurance
    A neat-herd's daughter, and my Leonatus
    Since I have ever followed thee with hate,  
    And Fortune play upon thy prosperous helm,
  ANNE. Never hung poison on a fouler toad.
    [To the TRIBUNES]  God save your good worships! Marcius is coming

    And with the vantage of mine own excuse
  O if (I say) you look upon this verse,

    For I can nowhere find him like a man.
  SILVIUS. Sure, it is hers.
    counsel,
  every why hath a wherefore.
    stare him out of his wits; I will awe him with my cudgel;

    Let me persuade you to forbear awhile.
  DESDEMONA. O, my fear interprets! What, is he dead?
    The healing benediction. With this strange virtue
    Shall for the fault make forfeit of his head.
    What need'st thou run so many miles about,
    will not serve my turn; the passado he respects not, the duello
  Hor. [aside to Hamlet] No, my good lord.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    I am thy sovereign.
  BEROWNE. Stoop, I say;  
    Shall bring this prize in very easily.
    He being of age to govern of himself?
    He's quoted for a most perfidious slave,
    Will triumph o'er my person; which I weigh not,
  Glou. You ever-gentle gods, take my breath from me;

    Whose absence is no less material to me
    I do beseech your lordship, call her back.
  Lady. But hear you, my lord.
    No danger in what show of death it makes,
    Fly o'er our heads and downward look on us,
    They have o'erlook'd me and divided me;
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Renowned Talbot doth expect my aid,
    That which I have than, coveting for more,

    How, now, my Lord of Worcester? 'Tis not well
    A Turkish fleet, and bearing up to Cyprus.
  TOUCHSTONE. Upon a lie seven times removed- bear your body more

    take a displeasure against you, look you-
    Extremity of griefs would make men mad;
  PROVOST. To him and to his substitutes.
    Thy broken faith hath made the prey for worms.
    That swear'st grace o'erboard, not an oath on shore?
    That we, like savages, may worship it.
    fragment, some slender ort of his remainder. The mere want of
  CLEOPATRA. I have sixty sails, Caesar none better.
  Your self again after your self's decease,
    On plots and errors happen.
  ROSALINE. Then was Venus like her mother; for her father is but
    breath to sing, as the fool has. In sooth, thou wast in very
    As I intend to thrive in this new world,
  Ant. Therein do men from children nothing differ.
  AUFIDIUS. Nor did you think it folly
    For pax of little price.
    Between two horses, which doth bear him best;  
  OTHELLO. This fellow's of exceeding honesty,
    That is your part. Yet I am advis'd to do it;
  FIRST WATCH. From whence?
  Blunt. Pray God you do.
    heaven or in hell!
    Hold you the watch to-night?
    Equal in lustre, were now best, now worst,  
    One that compos'd your beauties; yea, and one
  WHITMORE. I lost mine eye in laying the prize aboard,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Certain ones, then.
  LORD. Even as a flatt'ring dream or worthless fancy.
    Edward and Richard, like a brace of greyhounds
  TIMON. Not by his breath that is more miserable.
                                               [GOVERNOR kneels]
    maid and serves for wages. She hath more qualities than a
    Who art thou? Say, that I may honour thee.
  ANTONIO. 'Twas you we laugh'd at.

    not he?
    That here was at the wrestling?
         Mocks married men, for thus sings he:
  And controversy hence a question takes
Enter PAGE, FORD, MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and SIR HUGH EVANS
    That their good souls may be appeas'd with slaughter

  Lear. Nothing can come of nothing. Speak again.
  PLANTAGENET. Proud Pole, I will, and scorn both him and
  WESTMORELAND. Therefore be merry, coz; since sudden sorrow
    But fair posterity- should hold some counsel
    fear and trembling, and do observance to my mercy.
    writers do consent that ipse is he; now, you are not ipse, for I
                                                  [Giving him papers]
  OTHELLO. What promise, chuck?

    fortunes if they check me here.

    Held in contempt; while great promotions
  TAMORA. King, be thy thoughts imperious like thy name!
    The Queen your mother and your brother York
               That sits above
  KING. This new and gorgeous garment, majesty,
    Blood will I draw on thee-thou art a witch
    Here I and sorrows sit;
  PAGE. How fares my noble lord?
    wall.
    The great assay of art, but at his touch,
The forest
    endure her loud alarums, why, man, there be good fellows in the
  HECTOR. The worthiest of them tell me name by name;  
    This brave shall oft make thee to hide thy head.
    With bracelets of thy hair, rings, gawds, conceits,
    Wait in the presence.
    My very hairs do mutiny; for the white
    On forfeit of my hands, my head, my heart;
    Like an old tale; but it appears she lives
    These thoughts of horror further than you shall
  2. Cap. 'Tis more, 'tis more! His son is elder, sir;
     We wawl and cry. I will preach to thee. Mark.
  Glou. What mean, your Graces? Good my friends, consider
  Glou. The Duke 's to blame in this; 'twill be ill taken.
  OLIVIA. Nay, come, I prithee. Would thou'dst be rul'd by me!
    When shall I hear all through? This fierce abridgment

    And in the power of us the tribunes, we,
    Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.
     Than the sea-monster!
    increase; and there was never virgin got till virginity was first
  PROTEUS. Neither.
  IACHIMO. 'Tis their fresh supplies.
    More mild, but yet more harmful-kind in hatred.
    Whilst you were here o'erwhelmed with your grief-
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
     By diligent discovery; but your haste
    Let me pass quietly.
  KING HENRY. Even as men wreck'd upon a sand, that look to be wash'd
    To see the general hunting in this forest?
  SLY. I am Christophero Sly; call not me 'honour' nor 'lordship.' I
  MRS. OVERDONE. Thus, what with the war, what with the sweat, what
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Grievous-complaints of you; which, being consider'd,
  HOSTESS. Good Captain Peesel, be quiet; 'tis very late, i' faith; I
    And twice as much whate'er thou off'rest next.
  DUCHESS. Why droops my lord, like over-ripen'd corn
  I have convey'd aboard; and I have bought
    Take heed, my lord; the welfare of us all
                            Enter Bianca.
  WILLOUGHBY. Hold out my horse, and I will first be there.
  TIMON. Good honest men! Thou draw'st a counterfeit
    commonweal that do nothing but use their abuses in common houses,
    That you, Cleomenes and Dion, have  
    Romeo is banish'd; and all the world to nothing
  Corn. My villain!                               Draw and fight.
              This life is most jolly.
  SANDYS. New customs,
    And, by God's Mother, I, being but a bachelor,
    God wot;
  TIMON. What, dost thou weep? Come nearer. Then I love thee

    and sit like a jack-an-apes, never off. But, before God, Kate, I
    company.
    Whate'er the course, the end is the renown.           Exeunt
    your mystery in stratagem can bring this instrument of honour
    First to possess his books; for without them
    To keep it builded be the ram to batter
  AUFIDIUS. There was it;
    Your tributary drops belong to woe,
    In tempting of your patience, but am bold'ned
    And little is to do.
  LARTIUS. He did, my lord.
  ALONSO. Prithee, no more; thou dost talk nothing to me.
    horses to mine host of the Garter.
    By number into hours of happiness.
  Or sister sanctified, of holiest note,
    Than doth become a man. I will remain
    which else would stand under grievous imposition, as for the
    and hot blood begets hot thoughts, and hot thoughts beget hot
  MRS. PAGE. Hang him, dishonest varlet! we cannot misuse
    Seeking the bubble reputation
    Away, disperse; but till 'tis one o'clock,
             Shall upon their children be.
  One that, before the Judgment, carries poor souls to hell.
    That truth should be suspected. Speak, is't so?
    That art a votary to fond desire?
    Of thinking too precisely on th' event,-
    That you have many enemies that know not
  PORTIA. So do I, my lord;
    And take your ring again; 'tis not yet won.
    And purge it to a sound and pristine health,
    knight and I have seen! Ha, Sir John, said I well?
    Our house is hell; and thou, a merry devil,
  LEWIS. As heartily as he is glad he hath him.
  HELEN, a lady attending on Imogen
    Had not your man put up the fowl so suddenly,
    And might by no suit gain our audience:
    As many fresh streams meet in one salt sea,

  RICHARD. If not in heaven, you'll surely sup in hell.
    drunk, and afterwards pick'd my pocket.

    Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite,
    Petition us at home. Sextus Pompeius
    I could have given my uncle's Grace a flout
    You were conducted to a gentle bath
  PISTOL. Why then, rejoice therefore.
  Than this rich praise, that you alone, are you?
    seems harsh and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts
  Bora. Therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats.
    And fortify it strongly 'gainst the French;
  RUMOUR, the Presenter
  ROSALIND. I have more cause.
    Which now shows all the beauty of the sun,
    Had he been ta'en, we should have heard the news;
  BEROWNE. A fever in your blood? Why, then incision
    Who's there? Faith, here's an English tailor come hither, for
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    herself in the tub.
  Bene. Sir, I shall meet your wit in the career an you charge it
    May drop upon his kingdom and devour
Flourish. Enter the DUKE OF FLORENCE, BERTRAM, PAROLLES, SOLDIERS,
    Lull'd in these flowers with dances and delight;
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. If YOU went in pain, master, this 'knave' would go sore.
    at the casement; shut that, and 'twill out at the key-hole; stop
    To say what good respect I have of thee.
    If she in chains of magic were not bound,
  ARVIRAGUS. Hail, heaven!
    I was compell'd to her; but I love the
    To load thy merit richly. Call my women.
    With that we lack. I'll hold thee any wager,
  OBERON. How long within this wood intend you stay?
                     96  
    Detract so much from that prerogative
                    Re-enter ACHILLES
  And so my patent back again is swerving.

    That their hot blood may spin in English eyes,
    whilst he's in directitude.
  King. Love? his affections do not that way tend;  
    Which have solicited- the rest is silence.             Dies.


    with comeliness pluck'd all gaze his way; when, for a day of
  IAGO. Will you hear me, Roderigo?
    Our yoke and sufferance show us womanish.
    Without his top? The ruin speaks that sometime
    But nothing spoke in warrant from himself.
    Myself your loyal servant, your physician,
SC_2
    Possess the people in Messina here
    And wheresoe'er this foot of mine doth tread,
    Your noble Emperor and his lovely bride,
  And your true rights be termed a poet's rage,
    And tell the pleasant Prince this mock of his  
    While I stand fooling here, his Jack of the clock.
    He is your brother, lords, sensibly fed
  MENAS. All men's faces are true, whatsome'er their hands are.
    Dy'd in the dying slaughter of their foes.
  PANDARUS. True, he was so; I know the cause too; he'll lay about  
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    To pray for this good man and for his issue,
    Must I behold thy timeless cruel death?
  WESTMORELAND. Of fighting men they have full three-score thousand.
    Come, answer not, but to it presently;
  PAGE. He said, sir, the water itself was a good healthy water; but
    certain that either wise bearing or ignorant carriage is caught,
    Dark cloudy death o'ershades his beams of life,

DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Lorenzo, I commit into your hands
    My goods, my lands, my reputation;
  CORIN,    shepherd
  TITUS. Sirrah, hast thou a knife? Come let me see it.
  Or I will beat this method in your sconce.
    With foul and violent tempest.
    Go in and cheer the King. He rages; none
    not to alter me.
    Dost thou love me, I know thou wilt say 'Ay';  
  FIRST MURTHERER. It was, so please your Highness.

    On blossoming Caesar; and this pine is bark'd

           Trip no further, pretty sweeting;
    In her consists my happiness and thine;
  DESDEMONA. Your wife, my lord, your true and loyal wife.
    Please ye we may contrive this afternoon,
    To cure the desperate languishings whereof
    come before to tell you. If you know yourself clear, why,
    Since my appeal says I did strive to prove
    By sending me a letter? Read it again.
    in common, and in Cheapside shall my palfrey go to grass. And
    careful friend and a true subject; and thy father is to give me
    In virtue than in vengeance; they being penitent,
    My life stands in the level of your dreams,
    Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
     KING and his LORDS as maskers, in the guise of Russians
    feast, and to be executed ere they wipe their lips.
         O, methought there- a- was nothing- a- meet.
    We must with all our majesty and skill
    You are mine enemy, and make my challenge
    You will not do it, you!
    Speak but one rhyme, and I am satisfied!
  HORTENSIO. But I have cause to pry into this pedant;
    If my slight muse do please these curious days,
    Trowest thou that e'er I'll look upon the world
    If that the devil and mischance look big
    I'll make the statue move indeed, descend,
  Ruin hath taught me thus to ruminate

  BEROWNE. Would that do it good?
  But things removed that hidden in thee lie.
    Their wishes, do discandy, melt their sweets
    equal for his birth. You may do the part of an honest man in it.
    A letter was deliver'd to my hands,
    sa' me, la.
  SEBASTIAN. Yet-
    I have but little gold of late, brave Timon,
    Salutes each other with each other's form;
    And shortly must I fell it. Tell my friends,
    One care abroad; he would have all as merry
  RODERIGO. Well, what is it? Is it within reason and compass?
    Fetch me the hat and rapier in my cell;           Exit ARIEL
    Still have I borne it with a patient shrug,
    'Budge,' says the fiend. 'Budge not,' says my conscience.
    Re-enter POSTHUMUS, and seconds the Britons; they rescue
    Other offenders we will pause upon.  
    Again uncurse their souls; their peace is made
    Yet neither conqueror nor conquered.
    Methought it did relieve my passion much,
    To have some conference with your Grace alone.
    not.
  CLARENCE. Well, you must now speak Sir John Falstaff fair;
  DUKE. Are there no other tokens
    that my Lady Beatrice should know me, and not know me! The
    I visit Master Robert Shallow, Esquire. I have him already
    Mark'd for the gallows, lay your weapons down;
    Hath all so long detain'd you from your wife,
    And worthless Valentine shall be forgot.
  PERDITA. O my poor father!
  CASSIO. I remember a mass of things, but nothing distinctly; a
  LADY GREY. To do them good I would sustain some harm.
    With poisonous spite and envy.
    How joyful am I made by this contract!
    Of secret on her person, that he could not
  LAFEU. I must tell thee, sirrah, I write man; to which title age
    Would we had spoke together! Haste we for it.
  AGAMEMNON. Yonder comes the troop.
    Speak freely of our acts, or else our grave,
    Which princes, flesh'd with conquest, aim to hit.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    which short-arm'd ignorance itself knows is so abundant scarce,
    The question did at first so stagger me-
    sola!
    The passage and whole carriage of this action
  EMILIA.          What did thy song bode, lady?
  GONZALO. Ay.
    blood.
    And with him pour we, in our country's purge,
    Now, for my life, she's wand'ring to the Tower,
ACT IV. SCENE 5.
  DERBY. What of his heart perceive you in his face
    Not blame your pleasure be it ill or well.
    well allied; but it is impossible to extirp it quite, friar, till
    The pound of flesh which I demand of him
    Speak plainly your opinions of our hopes-
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Cut off the proud'st conspirator that lives.
    Some falls are means the happier to arise.            Exeunt
  VALENTINE
  COMINIUS. But now 'tis odds beyond arithmetic,

    This calf, bred from his cow, from all the world;
  OXFORD. Women and children of so high a courage,
    Look pale as primrose with blood-drinking sighs,
  ENOBARBUS. [Aside to AGRIPPA] That year, indeed, he was troubled
    We will bear home that lusty blood again
  TYRREL. James Tyrrel, and your most obedient subject.
    and clocks the tongues of bawds, and dials the signs of leaping
  Officer. Clubs, bills, and partisans! Strike! beat them down!
  PORTIA. Behold, there stand the caskets, noble Prince.
  SECOND KEEPER. I'll stay above the hill, so both may shoot.
    Proclaim you are no less. Can you so stead me
                                               [The KING swoons]
    To stain the temper of my knightly sword.
    my sword against the humour of affection would deliver me from
SECOND MERCHANT. Speak softly; yonder, as I think, he walks.
    And for an onset, Titus, to advance
    Infect the air! Twinn'd brothers of one womb-
  Prince. Why, what a pox have I to do with my hostess of the tavern?
  HECTOR. But value dwells not in particular will:

    And when you lov'd you were my other husband.
    What woman in the city do I name


  Angry that his prescriptions are not kept
    She hath herself not only well defended
    For we would give much, to use violent thefts
    I dreamt my master and another fought,
  NORFOLK. Those articles, my lord, are in the King's hand;
    Wishing his foot were equal with his eye;
    Lo, by my troth, the instrument is cold
    And raught not to five weeks when he came to five-score.
  wondrous fat marriage.
    When but love's shadows are so rich in joy!
  BURGUNDY. My duty to you both, on equal love,

    Than love that would seem hid: love's night is noon.
    I can no further crawl, no further go;
    That I did so when I was first assur'd.
  KING HENRY. Then, heaven, set ope thy everlasting gates,
    Cassio shall have my place. And, sir, tonight,

    To tender objects, but he in heat of action
Near Misenum

  CLARENCE. O, no, he loves me, and he holds me dear.
    For being now a favourer to the Briton,
  GLOUCESTER. My noble lords and cousins an, good morrow.
    The virgin tribute paid by howling Troy
    serve not him, I will run as far as God has any ground. O rare  
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    He shall be executed presently.              Exeunt SENATORS
  IMOGEN. I will write.

    But 'twas thy beauty that provoked me.


             Where heart doth hop.               [Stabs himself]
  MRS. PAGE. Quick, quick; we'll come dress you straight. Put  
    Is not the causer of the timeless deaths

    And thus most humbly I do take my leave.                Exit

  BERTRAM. I grow to you, and our parting is a tortur'd body.

     Occasions, noble Gloucester, of some poise,
    For every pelting petty officer

    yourself with your eyes, or knew yourself with your judgment, the
  From my poor cheek? Then he hath wasted it.
          Thunder. Second Apparition: a bloody Child.

     Make it more like a tavern or a brothel
  AGUECHEEK. 'Slight, I could so beat the rogue-
    A strange tongue makes my cause more strange, suspicious;
  Bene. I look for an earthquake too then.
    all, and sung to filthy tunes, let a cup of sack be my poison.
                 Enter ARMADO, MOTH, and COSTARD
    You know my father left me some prescriptions
    Hadst thou, like us from our first swath, proceeded
SCENE V.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Sir Thomas Erpingham, Sir John Ramston,
              O' th' other's villainy?
    Did I expose myself, pure for his love,
  VOLUMNIA. These are the ushers of Marcius. Before him he carries
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Be not obdurate, open thy deaf ears.
  ANTONY. She's dead, my Queen.
    Into the eye and prospect of his soul
  FALSTAFF. Have you importun'd her to such a purpose?
  In act thy bed-vow broke and new faith torn,
  LAFEU. You have it from his own deliverance.
    As who should say 'I would thou wert the man
    The walls of thy dear honour, keep unshak'd
    the city, we shall be dogg'd with company, and our devices known.
    Answer, and think upon this business.
  VALENTINE. What lets but one may enter at her window?
    Brook; Master Brook, you shall cuckold Ford.            Exit
    To lose his head; condemn'd by Angelo.
    Another yet! A seventh! I'll see no more!
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  DUKE. O, Sir, you must; and therefore I beseech you
    In the base court? Come down? Down, court! down, king!
    As truly as he moves.
    Come, sir.                                            Exeunt
  Ham. In happy time.
    Not as a groom. There's some of ye, I see,
    Subdues me quite. Ever till now,
  O, train me not, sweet mermaid, with thy note,

    Without assistance.
    It is the woman's part. Be it lying, note it,
     Of murtherous lechers; and in the mature time
    the time.
    To your proceeding bids me tell you this,
  John. Come, come, let us thither. This may prove food to my
  PROTEUS. We'll wait upon your Grace till after supper,
    Thou canst not speak too much; I have deserv'd
    More than thy fame and envy. Fix thy foot.
  ROSALINE. No point, with my knife.
    Importing the surrender of those lands
    What private griefs they have, alas, I know not,
    Or half her worthiness that gave the ring,
         More nor less to others paying
    So hath thy breath, my dearest Thisby dear.
            Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, BURGUNDY, BASTARD,
    I do not love to look on.
    As thou art knight, never to disobey
    And you were Isabel! Should it then be thus?
  LEONTES. O sweet Paulina,
  VALENTINE.  [Aside]  How like a dream is this I see and hear!
    Go I to fight: truth hath a quiet breast.

  MARTIUS. We know not where you left them all alive;
  CAMPEIUS. His Grace
    Live you the marble-breasted tyrant still;
           Then music with her silver sound'-
                       Enter the POST
                                             [Presents a letter]
    Or I shall say you are all in all in spleen,
  
    Tell them, when that my mother went with child
  Mort. I understand thy looks. That pretty Welsh
    And tell the fishes he's the Queen's son, Cloten.
    And at my lovely Tamora's entreats,
    To nothing but despair. A thousand knees

  SECOND LORD. I begin to love him for this.
    And quite divorce his memory from his part.
    His face thou hast, for even so look'd he,

  ESCALUS. Do you hear how he misplaces?
     And there I left him tranc'd.
    daughter.

    Yet I have fac'd it with a card of ten.
    Without the help of any hand at all.  
    And spend our flatteries to drink those men
    They are a sweet society of fair ones.
    I be serv'd such another trick, I'll have my brains ta'en out
    Is this the face which fac'd so many follies
  ALICE, a lady attending her
Enter ANGELO and ESCALUS

    For thou hast done a charitable deed.
and BOLINGBROKE

  FALSTAFF. Master Shallow, I owe you a thousand pounds.
  ANGELO. And she will speak most bitterly and strange.
  KING RICHARD. Should dying men flatter with those that live?
    Reveals before 'tis ripe- what thou dost know
    Enjoys it; but in gross brain little wots

    Met in the vale of Andren.
  FLAVIUS. Here, my lord.
    For that's my business to you-that you three  
    And bring away the armour that is there.

    phrase!
    She shall be priz'd. But that you say 'Be't so,'
    He hath against himself.
    Upon his royal face there is no note
  Glou. But I have, sir, a son by order of law, some year elder than
    nobility. Let them break your backs with burdens, take your
  HASTINGS. Sound trumpet; Edward shall be here proclaim'd.
    stark spoil'd with the staggers, begnawn with the bots, sway'd in
    and flourish in peace and plenty.'  
    Shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit,
    To whisper Wolsey-here makes visitation-
  ANTONIO. I pray you, think you question with the Jew.
     Stands on the hourly thought.

    Fair maid, send forth thine eye. This youthful parcel
    That we find out the cause of this effect-
      Hautboys. Enter the KING, and others, as maskers,
    Call'd Roderigo.
    More than I know the sound of Marcius' tongue  
  GLOUCESTER. No doubt, no doubt; and so shall Clarence too;
    man! a very good whore!' Why, is not this a lamentable thing,
  That they elsewhere might dart their injuries:
    In Crete, in Sparta, nor in Thessaly.  
  King. Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
  Claud. My liege, your Highness now may do me good.
  Free from these slanders and this open shame!
  CANIDIUS. Toward Peloponnesus are they fled.
    know a hawk from a handsaw.
    Your loss is great, so your regard should be;
  Then look I death my days should expiate.  
  SICINIUS. When we were chosen tribunes for the people-  

    The violation of my faith; and then
    To give full growth to that which still doth grow.
    For valour, is not Love a Hercules,
  QUEEN. My Lord of Suffolk, say, is this the guise,
  HORTENSIO. The motion's good indeed, and be it so.
  Mer. Why, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline,
    Put garlands on thy head.
  BRUTUS. We'll hear no more.
  GARDINER. With a true heart

    That thought them sure of you.
    She I kill'd! I did so; but thou strik'st me
  LAUNCELOT. Ergo, Master Launcelot. Talk not of Master Launcelot,
    for good things should be praised.
The mart
  DIANA. It might be yours or hers, for aught I know.
    Then in the midst a tearing groan did break
    My father and Lavinia shall forthwith
    That is, to be the champion of our Church.
    I will entreat: my boy, a Briton born,
    So dissolute a crew.
  Rom. No matter. Get thee gone  

    Comes dear'd by being lack'd. This common body,
    And since we have the vaward of the day,
  Lear. The little dogs and all,
                     85
  MALCOLM. 'Tis call'd the evil:
    a castle, cocksure. We have the receipt of fernseed, we walk
  CHAMBERLAIN. Mercy o' me, what a multitude are here!
  GAUNT. All places that the eye of heaven visits
    So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.
  CADE. Stand, villain, stand, or I'll fell thee down. He shall be
    His promises fly so beyond his state
    Upon the rising of the mountain foot
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Then learn to know him now; this is the Duke.
    And hemm'd about with grim destruction.
  ACHILLES. What, with me too, Thersites?
    him; quickly, dispatch.                                 Exit
    will go on the slightest errand now to the Antipodes that you can

    But mine is made the prologue to their play;
     When that which makes me bend makes the King bow,
    When better fall, for your avails they fell.
        and QUINTUS, two other sons; then TITUS ANDRONICUS;
    And keeps the oath which by that god he swears,
    My sons' sweet blood will make it shame and blush.
    This orient pearl. His speech sticks in my heart.
    How many score of miles may we well ride
    Make your full reference freely to my lord,

PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Before thou make a trial of her love?

    To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him home;
    Thou look'st like him that knows a warlike charge.
  LUCIUS. I was sure your lordship did not give it me.
    The mind shall banquet, though the body pine.
    in, to make all split.
  Bene. In my chamber window lies a book. Bring it hither to me in
    For he is footed in this land already.
    How many shallow bauble boats dare sail
    No. Know the gallant monarch is in arms
    Be heap'd like mine, and that thy skill be more
  Oph. Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't!
    Whip me? No, no; let carman whip his jade;
  Fal. Hal, wilt thou make one?  
  POSTHUMUS. How comes these staggers on me?  
  But rising at thy name doth point out thee,
    A sibyl, that had number'd in the world
Enter certain OUTLAWS
         That did never choose amiss.
    And had you not by wondrous fortune come,
  KING HENRY. An angel is like you, Kate, and you are like an angel.
    And linger not our sure destructions on.
    too, examin'd my parts with most judicious oeillades;
    For where is author in the world
    The honour is sacred which he talks on now,
    As we will ours, against these saucy walls;
  SON. Grandam, we can; for my good uncle Gloucester
  I cannot blame thee, for my love thou usest,
    And I with tears do wash the blood away.

    I say again, hath made a gross revolt,
  well feel his blows; and withal so doubtfully that I could
    Expell'd remorse and nature, who, with Sebastian-
  AJAX. O thou damned cur! I shall-
    And like a strutting player whose conceit
    Have you yourselves, Somerset, Buckingham,
    humble slough and appear fresh. Be opposite with a kinsman, surly
  OLIVER. This was not counterfeit; there is too great testimony in
    Being free itself, it thinks all others so.           Exeunt
    contract of her marriage and the day it is solemniz'd; if the
  Poins. Villains!
    Thou talk'st of nothing.
    And, bending forward, struck his armed heels
  RUGBY. Forbear; here's company.
  WARWICK. That shall I do, my liege. Stay, Salisbury,
    Then all too late comes counsel to be heard
  EDWARD. Smile, gentle heaven, or strike, ungentle death;
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    For you have but mistook me all this while.
    First go with me to church and call me wife,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
[Beats him]
  Pedro. Yea, marry. Dost thou hear, Balthasar? I pray thee get us
    Charles, it is the stubbornest young fellow of France; full of
    Saddle white Surrey for the field to-morrow.
    More fell than anguish, hunger, or the sea!
  Fran. Anon, sir.
  SIR TOBY. [Sings] But I will never die.           [Falls down]
    for, look you, she is as white as a lily and as small as a wand;  
    A pox of wrinkles!
    Between the realms of England and of France.
    If Cleopatra heard you, your reproof
AEGEON. Is not your name, sir, call'd Antipholus?
  I'll weep what's left away, and weeping die.
    Worse than tears drown. Beseech you all, my lords,

    There is a queen, attended by a Moor;
    From whence you spring by lineal descent.
    And, being credulous in this mad thought,
  GOWER. How now, sir! you villain!
    Than I can lay it down in likelihood.
  Grows fairer than at first, more strong, far greater.
    A stoup of wine, Maria!
    Perchance 'twill walk again.
    I show'r a welcome on ye; welcome all.
    My house is not a grange.  
  1. Serv. Where's Potpan, that he helps not to take away?
    I will not keep this form upon my head,
    Within her womb, which, for enlargement striving,
                  Enter CYMBELINE and LORDS
    they will not give a doit to relieve a lame beggar, they
                                  Exeunt CORIOLANUS and MENENIUS
    fairer. He that is proud eats up himself. Pride is his own glass,

    Here comes our general.

    And thou a kingdom; all of you allegiance.
    And throw between them all the food thou hast,
    And, on my life, hath stol'n him home to bed.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
     Have humbled to all strokes. That I am wretched
    the meaning or moral of his signs and tokens.
  PETER BULLCALF
ACT V SCENE 2.
    Which, I presume, he'll take in gentle part.
    But words are words; I never yet did hear
    nation. Fare ye well, sir; I am for France too; we shall speak of
    There lies the man, slain by young Romeo,
  DEMETRIUS. You do impeach your modesty too much
        Juno but an Ethiope were;
    Remaining in the coffer of her friends.

    piece of money, and go through with all.
    If that be sin, I'll make it my morn prayer
    down. Then did we two set on you four and, with a word, outfac'd
    Thou fall'st a blessed martyr!
    Who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely more
    That through the window bars bore at men's eyes

  IAGO. I am glad of it, for now I shall have reason
  BELARIUS. Is not this boy reviv'd from death?
    That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;
    king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams.
    That swallowed so much treasure and like a glass
  WARWICK. Why, therefore Warwick came to seek you out;
  POET. When Fortune in her shift and change of mood

    Keep then this passage to the Capitol;
  QUICKLY. Why, you say well. But I have another messenger
  HUBERT. Good morrow, little Prince.
    In the remembrance of so fair a dream.
    your excellent sherris is the warming of the blood; which before,
  VALERIA. In earnest, it's true; I heard a senator speak it. Thus it
    If I to-day die not with Frenchmen's rage,  
    Was there with him, if I have heard a truth.
    Were plac'd the heads of Edmund Duke of Somerset
  Nurse. I know not.

          On my black coffin let there be strown;
      And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
    I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.               Exit
  ACHILLES. Behold thy fill.  
    See what a grace was seated on this brow;
    Rather than make unprofited return.
    That sits in heart-grief and uneasines
SCENE:
    sleeve unbutton'd, your shoe untied, and every thing about you
  King. [aside] O, 'tis too true!
    honest a true fellow as any is in Bohemia.
    After the moon. If thou art rich, thou'rt poor;
    Are now become enamour'd on his grave.
    for a father?
    For any benefit that points to me,
    His ready sense, then straight his doubled spirit
  Beat. [unmasks] I answer to that name. What is your will?
    There is a thousand Hectors in the field;
    I see old Gaunt alive. O, then, my father,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE

    Did gibe my missive out of audience.  
                They know not how their wits to wear,
    To an impatient child that hath new robes
  KING HENRY. Know'st thou Gower?
  BIONDELLO. I hope I may choose, sir.
    merry men with him; and there they live like the old Robin Hood
  BASTARD. Bastards and else.

        That the lover, sick to death,
  Flourish. Enter Gloucester, with France and Burgundy; Attendants.
Paris. The KING'S palace
    Should notwithstanding join our lights together  
    And brought us thus together?
    Semblably furnish'd like the King himself.
    She that could think and ne'er disclose her mind,
    multitude? The name of Henry the Fifth hales them to an hundred
  SIR Gilbert Talbot, Sir William Stanley,
    Do the low-rated English play at dice;
    How the dispatch is made, and in what fashion,
    And secretly to greet the Empress' friends.
  ENOBARBUS. Think, and die.
    Motion and breath left out.
    And presently go with me to my chamber,
    Each battle sees the other's umber'd face;
    As I before rememb'red, all our state;
    Been thus encount'red. A figure like your father,
    Become a Christian and thy loving wife.                 Exit
    I do but beg a little changeling boy
    Ere break the smallest parcel of this vow.
    Are murd'red for our pains. This bitter taste
    And nights bright days when dreams do show thee me.
    Only for wantonness. By my christendom,
    I have got strength of limit. Now, my liege,
    Therefore the Dukes of Berri and of Britaine,
  BEROWNE. Not you by me, but I betrayed to you.
  DUKE SENIOR. Why, how now, monsieur! what a life is this,
  KING EDWARD. What fates impose, that men must needs abide;
    To pray for them that have done scathe to us!
    My spirits, as in a dream, are all bound up.
    among twenty, that will praise himself.
    The love that follows us sometime is our trouble,  
  FLORIZEL. Camillo has betray'd me;
    nor never welcome to a place till some certain shot be paid, and
  Pedro. That is the sum of all, Leonato. Signior Claudio and Signior
  NORFOLK. My lord, the enemy is pass'd the marsh.
    Old as I am, to queen it. But, I pray you,
ACT_4|SC_8
               Since you have shore
    So did he turn, and over Suffolk's neck
    Bear the great sway of his affairs with reasons,
    his face be like a wet cloak ill laid up!
  IRAS. She's dead too, our sovereign.
    Nay;  
    As, like to pitch, defile nobility,
    A modest one to bear me back again.
  POMPEY. You will not bail me then, sir?
    To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things

     To wage against thine enemies; nor fear to lose it,
    Tearsheet.
    Fall fellowly drops. The charm dissolves apace,
    Kill what I love?- a savage jealousy
    Thither where more attends you; and you slander
    And question this most bloody piece of work
    Cloten, the son o' th' Queen. I fear some ambush.
    That shapes this monstrous apparition.
  IAGO. I cry you mercy. Here's Cassio hurt by villains.
                 Re-enter SERVANTS with supper
  CLEOPATRA. O, is't come to this?  
  MARIA. Ass, I doubt not.
    My holy lord of Milan, from the King
    Help, masters!- Here's a goodly watch indeed!
                                                 Exeunt YORKISTS
    What think you on't?
    None but for some, and yet all different.
    And even as I was then is Percy now.
    my pure and immaculate valour, taken Sir John Colville of the
    Some patient leisure to excuse myself.
  Fran. You come most carefully upon your hour.
  OCTAVIUS. Or here, or at the Capitol.            Exit Lepidus.
    sighs and tears; they are greater storms and tempests than
    And his affairs come to me on the wind.
    They call this bed-work, mapp'ry, closet-war;
    Your trusty and most valiant servitor,
    And 'twixt them rushes; underneath whose arm
    be his dole! He that runs fastest gets the ring. How say you,
  ROSALIND. Then she puts you to entreaty, and there begins new
    That in your knowledge may by me be done,
    Should be full-fraught with serviceable vows.
    We yield our town and lives to thy soft mercy.
  Her. (reads) 'If any man of quality or degree within the lists of
    Shall in despite enforce a watery eye.
    Upon the beauty of all parts besides,
    Is tears and heavy sorrows of the blood
                         Enter SALISBURY
  DUCHESS. At that sad stop, my lord,
  ROSALIND. By my life, I do; which I tender dearly, though I say I
    tell money; he utters them as he had eaten ballads, and all men's

  Rom. She speaks.

  MESSENGER. Caesar, I bring thee word
  PROCULEIUS. So, Dolabella,
    Trebles thee o'er.
    gifts.

                    The two SERVINGMEN come forward
    I'll through and through you. And, thou great-siz'd coward,
    Boding to all- he had my handkerchief.
  PAULINA. A most unworthy and unnatural lord
    This day is ours, as many more shall be.                Exit
    Even in the fan and wind of your fair sword,
    His marks of merit, wounds receiv'd for's country.
  FIRST WITCH. I come, Graymalkin.
     When it is mingled with regards that stands
    Which once in him abated, an the rest
    So great indignities you laid upon me?

    I'll buckler thee against a million.
  FLUELLEN. Your grandfather of famous memory, an't please your
    And fight and die is death destroying death,
    Condemns you to the death. See them delivered over
    Sirs, drag them from the pit unto the prison;
    And wakes it now, to look so green and pale
    [Aside to Banquo] Do you not hope your children shall be kings,
        Till death be uttered
     To gorge his appetite, shall to my bosom
  Fal. Why, Hal, thou knowest, as thou art but man, I dare; but as
             Moon, take thy flight.             [Exit MOONSHINE]
  Prince. Well, we leave that to the proof.
    Not yet on summer's death nor on the birth
    Art thou my calf?
  GLOUCESTER. Why, brother, wherefore stand you on nice points?
    my life.
    There's something tells me- but it is not love-
    Over the wretched? What though you have no beauty-
    Troilus.
  QUEEN. What, will your Highness leave the Parliament?
  FIRST LADY. My lord, you take us even at the best.

    The commoners, for whom we stand, but they
    fire and water for such a kind heart. But yet I would my
     I might have sav'd her; now she's gone for ever!
  CLEOPATRA. Why, that's the way
  KATHARINE. Lord Longaville said I came o'er his heart;

    With pestilent speeches of his father's death,
                                                        [Reads.]
    Seek not my name. A plague consume you wicked caitiffs left!
    I owe you much; and, like a wilful youth,
    tongues.' 'That I believe' said she, 'for he swore a thing to me
  SUFFOLK. A charge, Lord York, that I will see perform'd.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  LUCENTIO. And not a jot of Tranio in your mouth:
  SIR THOMAS ERPINGHAM, officer in the King's army
  EMILIA. O heaven! O heavenly powers!  
    And twenty of these puny lies I'll tell,  
    born.
    presence, ha' ta'en a couple of as arrant knaves as any in
    Between our Ilium and where she resides
    And- after conflict such as was suppos'd
    very good friends. What a frosty-spirited rogue is this! Why, my
    Thy prime of manhood daring, bold, and venturous;
    And daughters of the game.                       [Trumpet within]
    That, were my state far worser than it is,
     is diligence.
    and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were
    Drunkenness is his best virtue, for he will be swine-drunk; and
    To know who hath obtain'd the glory of the day.
    To do a murd'rous deed, to rob a man,
  Lear. Do you bandy looks with me, you rascal?
    For their fell faults our brothers were beheaded,  
  Mar. Look with what courteous action
    and spent with crying 'Bring in'; now ill as low an ebb as the
    none; unless the fiddler Apollo get his sinews to make catlings
        And in the stocks avouch it.
    Out of our easiness and childish pity
  COMINIUS. Though thou speak'st truth,
    Put colour in thy cheek.
    Dost thou deny thy father, cursed drab?
    Shall we, upon the footing of our land,
  KATHARINE. Did not I dance with you in Brabant once?
    The noontide sun, call'd forth the mutinous winds,

  MARCUS. I think she means that there were more than one
    Pray sit between these ladies.  
    then a whoreson jackanapes must take me up for swearing, as if I

  PETRUCHIO. Go, fetch them hither; if they deny to come.
    When they have lost and forfeited themselves?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Shuts up his windows, locks fair daylight
  JESSICA. Who are you? Tell me, for more certainty,
    Me cause to wail, but teachest me the way

                 Lay me, O, where

  LYSANDER. I am, my lord, as well deriv'd as he,
    Whereof their mother daintily hath fed,
    Nor need you, on mine honour, have to do
    How like the prodigal doth she return,
                                    Exit REIGNIER from the walls  
  BEDFORD. Now, quiet soul, depart when heaven please,
    That which you are, Mistress o' th' Feast. Come on,
        Solemn music. Enter, as in an apparition, SICILIUS
  SHYLOCK. O noble judge! O excellent young man!

    Thou lily-liver'd boy. What soldiers, patch?
    A vessel under sail, so men obey'd
    Go thou toward home, where I will never come
    But in the presence of the prioress;
    That thou restrain'st from me the duty which
  SHYLOCK. I cannot tell; I make it breed as fast.
    And pardon comes. I shall anon advise you
  CELIA, daughter to Frederick
  TIMON. Ah, my good friend, what cheer?
    Keeps place with thought, and almost, like the gods,
  Marg. I like the new tire within excellently, if the hair were a
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD, GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, and forces,
    To hide me from the radiant sun and solace
    Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed
    Never lack'd gold and yet went never gay,
    This deadly blot in thy digressing son.
    Go, speak not to me; even now be gone.
  Rom. Alas that love, whose view is muffled still,
    By nice direction of a maiden's eyes;

  FIRST SOLDIER. 'First demand of him how many horse the Duke is
    My mind she has mated and amazed my sight.
    great.
    He sent in writing after me; what he would not,
  Glou. What paper were you reading?

  THESEUS. And we will hear it.
  CERES. Highest Queen of State,
  CLOTEN. Humh!  
    It was my folly; if industriously
    And kiss your princely nephew, brothers both.

  AARON. Zounds, ye whore! Is black so base a hue?
  TITUS LARTIUS
    unbuttoning thee after supper, and sleeping upon benches after
  OLIVIA. Go call him hither.                         Exit MARIA
  GRUMIO. Villain, not for thy life! Take up my mistress' gown for
    I love your son.
  LAFEU. I will subscribe for thee; thou art both knave and fool.
  
    Invite me to a banquet; whose bright faces
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    That stand 'twixt me and Milan, candied be they  
    For too much loving you.
    drunken sleep; careless, reckless, and fearless, of what's past,

  KING HENRY. Our tongue is rough, coz, and my condition is not
  QUINTUS. Thy hand once more; I will not loose again,
    Under their sweet shade, Aaron, let us sit,


    Give grandam kingdom, and it grandam will
Scene III.
  OTHELLO. Give me your hand. This hand is moist, my lady.
    Yet Edward at the least is Duke of York.
  Eat up thy charge? is this thy body's end?
  Leon. My lord, will you .walk? Dinner is ready.
  GLOUCESTER. [Aside to CARDINAL] Faith, holy uncle, would 'twere
    There's two or three of us have seen strange sights.
    yourself I will seek satisfaction of you.
    Or add a royal number to the dead,
    be beholding to his friend for a man. I keep but three men
    And his advantage following your decease-
    I Pandulph, of fair Milan cardinal,
  JAQUES. God buy you; let's meet as little as we can.
  SALISBURY. Ah, Richard, with the eyes of heavy mind,
    And we are stay'd for at Bassanio's feast.
    God turn their hearts! I never sought their malice-

    now. Commend me bountifully to his good lordship, and I hope his
                   AJAX, and CALCHAS
  KING PHILIP. I fear some outrage, and I'll follow her.         Exit
  VIOLA. Yes, being kept together and put to use.
    linguist, and the amnipotent soldier.
    Then, forester, my friend, where is the bush
SCENE VI.
  BOY. Suivez-vous le grand capitaine.       Exit FRENCH SOLDIER
Enter TAMORA, and her two sons, DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, disguised
      The white sheet bleaching on the hedge,
    'Tis you must dig with mattock and with spade,
    of her.
  Pol. Give o'er the play.
    Should I, in these my borrowed flaunts, behold
  BANQUO. Very gladly.
  Osw. I may not, madam.
  That she this day hath shameless thrown on me.
    cog, and say thou art this and that, like a many of these
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
SCENE II.
  ANTONY. Fall not a tear, I say; one of them rates
    But love hate on for now I know thy mind,  
  PORTER. Here's a knocking indeed! If a man were porter of Hell
    I'll do the service of a younger man
    your mother?
    In craving your opinion of my tide,
    Marry, for Justice, she is so employ'd,
    adversary's entertainment. Now he hath a smack of all
  GRATIANO. Well, do you so, let not me take him then;
  Mort. This is the deadly spite that angers me-
    Yet never means to wed where he hath woo'd.

    that.
    But let me see. Is this our foeman's face?
    For which we have in head assembled them?
      of Cambridge.
    In base appliances. This outward-sainted deputy,
    And at that time I made her weep a good,
  IAGO. As I am an honest man, I thought you had received some bodily
    Come on, away. Apart upon our knees.
    What would she find? Lavinia, shall I read?
    Here comes Bohemia.
    This I must do, or know not what to do;
  Pol. This is too long.
    the watch to babble and to talk is most tolerable, and not to be
    like her? that but seeing you should love her? and loving woo?
  LORD RIVERS, brother to Lady Grey
    Look, on the sheets his hair, you see, is sticking;
  O truant Muse what shall be thy amends,
  DIANA, daughter to the Widow
    Their arms are set, like clocks, still to strike on;
     [Sings]    Fools had ne'er less grace in a year,
    the guts of a beggar.
    Sirrah young gamester, your father were a fool
    man than I am?
    to be a thief too, sir, for we have found upon him, sir, a
    Is in the field, and still his power increaseth.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan
  CARDINAL. What, art thou lame?
Scene IV.
    Shall I attend your lordship?
    Have made the ground my bed. I should be sick
                                                  Exit VALENTINE
         And Marian's nose looks red and raw,
    Hid in an auger hole, may rush and seize us?
  Such seems your beauty still: three winters cold,
    Is to remove proud Somerset from the King,
    That all the travellers do fear so much.
  Greg. Ay, while you live, draw your neck out of collar.
    though not with bag and baggage, yet with scrip and scrippage.
    what's to be done?
    Between the pass and fell incensed points
    To have begg'd or bought what I have took. Good troth,
    of villainous smell that ever offended nostril.
    Thou cam'st on earth to make the earth my hell.
     made him so ill, though he had been but two hours at the trade.
  GLOUCESTER. Now will it best avail your Majesty
    Like sacrifices, by their watchful fires
    money.
    affectation; but call'd it an honest method, as wholesome as
    Ungovern'd youth, to wail it in their age;
               O Sisters Three,
    patch'd with sin, and sin that amends is but patch'd with virtue.
    This follows, if you will not change your purpose
  SHYLOCK. To cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there.
    Are now each one the slaughterman of twenty.
    For I have seen our enemies' overthrow.
  QUICKLY. I will tell her.
    Yet, I remember, when I was in France,

    The ravish'd Helen, Menelaus' queen,
  MACBETH. What man dare, I dare.

    Will hum about mine ears; and sometimes voices,
    Should not become my wife and England's Queen.
  Ham. How strangely?
    When I shall pray 'O, bless my lord and husband!'  
  ANNE. Ay, indeed, sir.
    And by the way let us recount our dreams.             Exeunt  
    Shall I destroy him? Whether there, or there, or there?
    How goes our reck'ning?
    Margaret shall now be Queen, and rule the King;
THE END
  PROSPERO.  [Aside]  Honest lord,
  IMOGEN. Continues well my lord? His health beseech you?
    Find such another master.  
  BEROWNE. Now fair befall your mask!
    It should none spare that come within his power.
    Then thank him not for that which he doth say,
    And faints for succour.
    And appetite, an universal wolf,
  PAROLLES. Five or six thousand; but very weak and unserviceable.
  Bene. In a false quarrel there is no true valour. I came to seek
    We fortify in paper and in figures,
    You tell her so. Must she not then be answer'd?
    Like to an ent'red tide they all rush by
    Hall to thee, lady! And the grace of heaven,
    It will the woefullest division prove
    with Jaquenetta, and Jaquenetta is a true girl; and therefore
  VIRGILIA. I am glad to see your ladyship.
  But if thou live to see like right bereft,
    On the bat's back I do fly
  GLOUCESTER. Ay, Edward will use women honourably.  
    He would receive it? He and his physicians
    flesh and corrupt blood, thou art welcome.
    Might be my question.

    Hath plac'd thy beauty's image and thy virtue.
    That, as I am a Christian faithful man,
  CASSIO. Not that I love you not.
    Command the conquest, Charles, it shall be thine,
  EGYPTIAN. So the gods preserve thee!                      Exit
    For I should melt at an offender's tears,
  GUIDERIUS. To who? To thee? What art thou? Have not I
    You have no cause to hold my friendship doubtful.  
    I mean the Bishop-did require a respite  
    For they have entertained cause enough

  WARWICK. Can Oxford that did ever fence the right
  KING HENRY. Then you are a better than the King.

     The night before there was no purpose in them
    I would it were my fault to sleep so soundly.
  Claud. In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I look'd on.
    Doth grace for grace and love for love allow.
    love him, I should.'
    you shall hear more; but if he had not been in drink, he would
    For happy wife, a most distressed widow;

    Since kings break faith upon commodity,
  CLIFFORD. Why, what a brood of traitors have we here!
                 Re-enter the first SERVINGMAN
  FIRST LORD. You see, my lord, how ample y'are belov'd.
    From youth of such a season, fore noble Lucius
    And shortly comes to harvest.
    And if it stand, as you yourself still do,
    I'll sacrifice the lamb that I do love
    put tricks upon 's with savages and men of Ind? Ha! I
Another part of the island
    To diet rank minds sick of happiness,
    Now, fellows, you are welcome.
  ORLANDO. Which I take to be either a fool or a cipher.
  CLOTEN. We have yet many among us can gripe as hard as Cassibelan.
    A day in April never came so sweet
  ALONSO. Not I.
  KING EDWARD. Away with her, and waft her hence to France.
    The revenue whereof shall furnish us
THE END

  ARIEL. Well! I conceive.                                  Exit
  ANTONY. The business she hath broached in the state
    At lower end of the hall hurl'd up their caps,
    I bear no hatred, blessed man, for, lo,  
  TRANIO. 'Tis death for any one in Mantua
           I pray for no man but myself.
  COUNTESS. Wilt thou needs be a beggar?
  ANTONY. Go, Eros, send his treasure after; do it;
    to this his distemper he is in now. I am glad the fat knight
    I do perceive here a divided duty.
         Craft against vice I must apply.
    A baubling vessel was he captain of,
    But I do find it cowardly and vile,
    lady in the world.
    out of mine, I can assure him. What said Master Dommelton about
  SALISBURY. Wounded to death.
  LUCETTA. I cannot reach so high.
    And looks not on his evils. Is not this true?
  
    will get Peter Quince to write a ballad of this dream. It shall
    She's a stranger now again.
  PETRUCHIO. Nay, then you lie; it is the blessed sun.

ADRIANA. I will discharge thee ere I go from thee;
    Belief of it oppresses me already.
  BRUTUS. That must we also. What it is, my Caius,
    I speak from certainties. Nay more,
    Is my poor heart so for a kinsman vex'd.
     Natures of such deep trust we shall much need;
    Set them into confounding odds, that beasts
  SILENCE. That's fifty-five year ago.
    A deed of death done on the innocent

  THIRD CITIZEN. Where do you dwell?
    this, give these fellows some means to the King. They have
                 The Presenters above speak
    Grew fat with feasting there.
    Without sweat or endeavour. Treason, felony,
ACT III. Scene I.

    The King of Naples-whosoe'er thou art.
                                          Exit, led out forcibly
  Oph. Pray you mark.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  To say within thine own deep sunken eyes,

    of my kingdom. Go to, carry this.
  CLEOPATRA. We will not look upon him. Go with us.
    man; good. If the man go to this water and drown himself, it is,
  HELENA. O, when she is angry, she is keen and shrewd;
                 His breeches cost him but a crown;
  AENEAS. Hark what good sport is out of town to-day!
  FABIAN. O, peace, peace, peace! Now, now.  
           Enter FORD with PISTOL, and PAGE with Nym
    Edward, kneel down.
  RICHMOND. All comfort that the dark night can afford
  GONZALO. I' th' name of something holy, sir, why stand you
    Answer'd my steps too loud.
    Of strong prevailment in unhardened youth;
    As I do love my father.
    Welcome to Cyprus.
    Think it a bastard whom the oracle
    Most pretty things to say. Ere I could tell him
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    stag; and the fattest, I think, i' th' forest. Send me a cool
ADRIANA. Neither my husband nor the slave return'd
    And, in conclusion, dumbly have broke off,
    till he had both tune and words, which so drew the rest of the
  QUINCE. You, Pyramus' father; myself, Thisby's father; Snug, the  
    Ambassador to the Emperor, you made bold
    That shapes man better; and they follow him
                   the noise of a sea-fight
    As life were in't. I have supp'd full with horrors;
    As thick as honeycomb, each pinch more stinging

    Wash my fierce hand in's heart. Go you to th' city;
  For she hath no exchequer now but his,
  Laer. Let this be so.

    And my integrity ne'er knew the crafts
    One thing or other. When thou didst not, savage,
    Stain'd with the variation of each soil
  TITUS. O, here I lift this one hand up to heaven,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    rejoice in the boy's correction.                        Exit
  TIMON. I take no heed of thee. Th'art an Athenian, therefore
  In praise of ladies dead, and lovely knights,

    And yet thou wilt, for I being pent in thee,
    From your good Queen.
  TITUS. Do me some service ere I come to thee.
    And violenteth in a sense as strong
  AMIENS. My voice is ragged; I know I cannot please you.
  Arch. I hope no less, yet needful 'tis to fear;
    'tis a playing day, I see.
  Pol. Fare you well, my lord.
    A testament of noble-ending love.
    And therefore yet relent, and save my life.
  DESDEMONA. I will not leave him now till Cassio
    In doing it, pays itself. Your Highness' part
  THERSITES. I serve here voluntary.
    And all my followers to the eager foe
  OLIVIA. 'Tis in grain, sir; 'twill endure wind and weather.
    again.
  KATHERINE, daughter to Charles and Isabel
  When sparkling stars twire not thou gild'st the even.
    That will not suffer you to square yourselves,
    So much I hate a breaking cause to be
  GUIDERIUS. What does he mean? Since death of my dear'st mother
     Shall do a court'sy to our wrath, which men
  SECOND WATCHMAN. What, will he not to bed?
  PETRUCHIO. It may not be.
    or I will subscribe him a coward. And I pray thee now tell me,
  KING RICHARD. Then give me leave to go.

             Eyes, do you see?
    And well am like to do, for I perceive

  TRINCULO. Monster, come, put some lime upon your fingers,
    Fright me with urchin-shows, pitch me i' th' mire,
    Our grandam earth, having this distemp'rature,
    For, as I hear, the King is fled to London
    good, scald knave, as eat it?
    berhym'd since Pythagoras' time that I was an Irish rat, which I
  KING.  [Reads the letter]  'Upon his many protestations to marry me
    Hath thus stood for his country. Therefore please you,
  Edg. Shall I hear from you anon?
    I'll fill these dogged spies with false reports;
    Sounds ever after as a sullen bell,
    Now by my sceptre's awe I make a vow,

    Yet such extenuation let me beg
    [Aside to PORTIA]  I'll See if I can get my husband's ring,
    No? wilt thou not? I like thy armour well;
    Whoever gave it you. Then, if you know
    tell you what you shall do. Our general's wife is now the

    Our blood to us, this to our blood is born.
    And Lord Berowne, I thank him, is my dear.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    To be a torment to mine enemies?
SCENE III.

  Reg. Wherefore to Dover, sir?
    that ever the devil could have made you our delight?
    The greater therefore should our courage be.
Hautboys playing loud music. A great banquet serv'd in;
    On pure heart's love, to greet the tender Princes.
    He that is truly dedicate to war
  BASSANIO. Have you heard any imputation to the contrary?
    That man that sits within a monarch's heart
    For every inch of woman in the world,
     scar'd out of his good wits. Bless thee, good man's son, from
    cozened. Fare you well.                                 Exit
    more clamorous than a parrot against rain, more new-fangled than
  IAGO. Do, with like timorous accent and dire yell
    But Nature never fram'd a woman's heart
    But this my masculine usurp'd attire,
    Seeing Orlando, it unlink'd itself,
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Plain and not honest is too harsh a style.
    Exist and be a member of his love
     With my two daughters' dowers digest this third;
    can be offert; in your conscience, now, is it not?
    He that no more must say is listen'd more
  Thyself I call it, being strange to me,
  And found it in thy cheek: he can afford
  Nor to her bed no homage do I owe;
    see him.
  VIOLA. Ay, but I know-
    At requiring,

                                    Exeunt COMINIUS and MENENIUS
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Din'd at home! Thou villain, what sayest thou?
Enter POET, PAINTER, JEWELLER, MERCHANT, and MERCER, at several doors
    willingly consented to his banishment, yet it was against our
  LEONTES. What! Lack I credit?
    That always favour'd him.
    I come to have thee thrust me out of doors.
    Save what is opposite to England's love.
    upon Antenor!
      As thy eye-beams, when their fresh rays have smote
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    And I will see thee.
  
    The heart of Antony, Octavia is
    Ability in means, and choice of friends,
    I would prove-
Milan. The DUKE's palace
  Oph. Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?

    An hour or more, not meaning any harm?
    Athens.
    Ah, mine own lord, what have I seen to-night!
    I would be friends with you, and have your love,  
    in good earnest, nor no further in sport neither than with safety

    He is so plaguy proud that the death tokens of it
    That draw his knives i' th' war. Well, I will find him;
    Would come against you.
    And nothing grieves me heartily indeed
  PAINTER. Certain. Alcibiades reports it; Phrynia and Timandra had
    all vagrom men; you are to bid any man stand, in the Prince's
    All this I give you. Let me be your servant;

    You make strong party, or defend yourself
    I have forgot him; my imagination
    His wife but yesternight was brought to bed;
  CASSANDRA. Farewell!-yet, soft! Hector, I take my leave.
    duty,

  MACBETH. So is he mine, and in such bloody distance
    again, for the man must not be hang'd till the next week.
    All which secure and sweetly he enjoys,
    I' th' body of the weal; and now, arriving
  CLOWN. To tell you where he lodges, is to tell you where I lie.
    love with your heart. But, good Kate, mock me mercifully; the
    That they may fairly note this act of mine!           Exeunt
    And travelling along this coast, I bere am come by chance,

    houses, and the blessed sun himself a fair hot wench in
           [JUNO and CERES whisper, and send IRIS on employment]

    For she did speak in starts distractedly.
  KEEPER. Your Grace must wait till you be call'd for.
    is, the old Duke is banished by his younger brother the new Duke;
    The grief is fine, full, perfect, that I taste,
    Makes the night morning and the noontide night.
  FALSTAFF. 'Seese' and 'putter'! Have I liv'd to stand at the
    And there I stood amazed for a while,
    And uncle Worcester. A plague upon it!
  RICHARD. 'Twas you that kill'd young Rutland, was it not?
    Now make your choice.
    Bated like eagles having lately bath'd;
    In any case, the offer of the King.
    With a swain's wearing; and me, poor lowly maid,
    More sharper than your swords, hie to the field:
    I cannot now prove constant to myself
     Let copulation thrive; for Gloucester's bastard son
    The good patricians must be visited;
    Stay but a little, I will come again.                [Exit.]
    What Eve, what serpent, hath suggested the
  KING EDWARD. Ay, if thou wilt say ay to my request;
    Thou shalt aby it.
    medlar. Then it will be the earliest fruit i' th' country; for
                           Enter an AEDILE
    The leisure and enforcement of the time

    That weaken motion. I'll have't disputed on;
    Of sky-aspiring and ambitious thoughts,
    When tyrants' crests and tombs of brass are spent.
    The greatest strength and power that he can make
     Briefly thyself remember. The sword is out
    And if thine eyes can water for his death,
    I bring you certain news from Shrewsbury.
    In this detested, dark, blood-drinking pit.
    let me be vilely painted, and in such great letters as they write
  FRENCH KING. Thus comes the English with full power upon us;
    Cold death aside and with the other sends
    it would do well to set the deer's horns upon his head for a

Padua. BAPTISTA'S house
    Like Valor's minion carved out his passage
    juvenal?
    This lady makes him to me.
    O, how hast thou with jealousy infected
  Edg. Look, where he stands and glares! Want'st thou eyes at trial,
    from him.
  OBERON. Tarry, rash wanton; am not I thy lord?
  GONZALO. Not since widow Dido's time.  
    Yet now, farewell; and farewell life with thee!
    As feel in his own fall; for men, like butterflies,
    You all consented unto Salisbury's death,
    Against the general enemy Ottoman.
    And they in France of the best rank and station
    It's monstrous labour when I wash my brain
    That I have sent her, by her own command
    Of any king's in Europe! I do think
    stopping a bunghole?
    aside.
  CLARENCE. In choosing for yourself you show'd your judgment,
    Not yet mature, yet matchless; firm of word;
  OTHELLO. With her?

    weather that you make yourself. It is needful that you frame the
    It were dishonour to deny it her.
  CAMILLO. I think this coming summer the King of Sicilia means to
    Let me work;
  COLVILLE. I think you are Sir John Falstaff, and in that thought
    [To RICHMOND]   Quiet untroubled soul, awake, awake!
  GUIDERIUS. Fear no more the heat o' th' sun
    according as he pleased and displeased them, as they use to do
    at once delivered.
  KING RICHARD. Too well, too well thou tell'st a tale so in.
    The crows to peck the eagles.
    Conferr'd by testament to th' sequent issue,
               Enter Montague [and others].
    our throats are sentenc'd, and stay upon execution.
    Distinguish form. So your sweet Majesty,
  NURSE. A devil.
    As potent as a lord's. Will go yet?
    Which all the while ran blood, great Caesar fell.
  GLOUCESTER. Unmannerd dog! Stand thou, when I command.
    That makes the weight. Had I great Juno's power,
  IMOGEN. Pray what is't?
    But Henry now shall wear the English crown

    With holy breath.
    Pursu'd my humour, not Pursuing his,
    By holy Paul, they love his Grace but lightly
    Upon your Grace's part; black and fearful
  Edm. I shall serve you, sir,  
    Veiling an Indian beauty; in a word,
SECOND MERCHANT. How is the man esteem'd here in the city?

  EGEUS. With duty and desire we follow you.
    But that thou overheard'st, ere I was ware,
                      Re-enter DOLABELLA
    O, could our mourning case thy misery!                Exeunt
    This day was view'd in open as his queen,
  AGUECHEEK. Marry, but you shall have; and here's my hand.
    We sent unto the Temple, unto his chamber;
    faith, say I. Well, it's all one.                       Exit
    In the state of honourable marriage;
    incline to the people, there was never a worthier man.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. O, God save ye!
    by helping me to the speech of Beatrice.
  Prince. How old art thou, Francis?
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. I'll save you
                Exit SERVANT leading HORTENSIO carrying the lute
ADRIANA. O, bind him, bind him; let him not come near me.
    The Man i' th' Moon's too slow, till newborn chins
    sleep afterwards.
    Amongst much other talk that very time  
    And shows the ragged entrails of this pit;
    Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
           Enter JESSICA, above, in boy's clothes
  VIOLA. Of Messaline; Sebastian was my father.
    Then get thee gone, and dig my grave thyself;
    One of my sex; no woman's face remember,
    Look to your wife; observe her well with Cassio;
    My foreward shall be drawn out all in length,
    fool to serve such a fool; and this Patroclus is a fool positive.
  And told thee to what purpose and what end.
    Sink in the trial. Comes his army on?
    What case stand I in? I must be the poisoner
  SOME OTHER. I know not.
    To think o' th' teen that I have turn'd you to,
  Verg. Nay, by'r lady, that I think 'a cannot.
    And whirl along with thee about the globes.
  CLOWN. Why, sir, if I cannot serve you, I can serve as great a
    The circle of my glory.

    For I, too fond, might have prevented this.
  I live dis-stain'd, thou undishonoured.
  CRANMER. Let me speak, sir,
  JULIA. I would always have one play but one thing.
    And thence from Athens turn away our eyes,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  MACBETH. If thou speak'st false,
    I am a right maid for my cowardice;
    For this they have engrossed and pil'd up
    And I the elder and more terrible.
    gossip Report be an honest woman of her word.

    Where there's another man. The vows of women
    Pedlar, let's have the first choice. Follow me, girls.
            And follows but for form,
    Anjou and Maine! myself did win them both;
    As many other mannish cowards have
  PARIS
  JAQUES. A fool, a fool! I met a fool i' th' forest,
    are in the moon. But silence; here comes Thisby.
  Claud. For the which she wept heartily and said she cared not.
  Fool. I have us'd it, nuncle, ever since thou mad'st thy daughters
    understood. What's your offence?
  LYSANDER. And he did bid us follow to the temple.
  LADY MACBETH. Out, damned spot! Out, I say! One- two -why then 'tis
Antium. Before AUFIDIUS' house

    To make the truth appear where it seems hid,  
    To teach thee safety! Thou art perjur'd too,
    As I intended, for it wrought on her
  LAFEU. Why, Doctor She! My lord, there's one arriv'd,
    the man that he would gladly make show to the world he is; if I  
    Thus do I pine and surfeit day by day,
  LORD. Hence comes it that your kindred shuns your house,
    Hark, canst thou hear me? I will play the swan,  
    Should sunder such sweet friends. Here in her hairs
  And I a tyrant have no leisure taken
    At large discoursed in this paper here.
    Or else my sword, with an unbatter'd edge,
    Froward by nature, enemy to peace;
    To see her coronation be perform'd.
    I doubt not but with honour to redress;
    Thy sons make pillage of her chastity,
            Enter BUCKINGHAM and old CLIFFORD, attended
    Which issued from my other angel husband,
    That surfeit on their ease, will day by day
    My brain I'll prove the female to my soul,
     fool.
  KING EDWARD. I'll tell you how these lands are to be got.
  CHARMIAN. O, excellent! I love long life better than figs.
  Fal. Indeed you come near me now, Hal; for we that take purses go
    But know I think, and think I know most sure,
    me; that is the very note of it.
Scene II.
         They bore him barefac'd on the bier
  IDEN. Nay, it shall ne'er be said, while England stands,
  PRINCE. Sup any women with him?
  MARIA. You may have very fit occasion for't; he is now in some
    I tell you 'tis incredible to believe.
    most notable coward, an infinite and endless liar, an hourly

  CORIOLANUS. Fare ye well;

                                                  [Steps aside.]
    Marcus, we are but shrubs, no cedars we,
  FIRST LORD. I am so far already in your gifts-
  A joyful mother of two goodly sons;
  EMILIA. Most worthy madam,
  Pedro. And, as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join with
    It to be stirr'd; but oft have hind'red, oft,
    votary: I have vow'd to Jaquenetta to hold the plough for her
    And wore us out of act. It much repairs me
    Leese but their show, their substance still lives sweet.
    Worthy the pressing- lies a mole, right proud
  SICINIUS. One thus descended,
  My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain:
  MARIA. Folly in fools bears not so strong a note
  SECOND LORD. I am your accessary; and so farewell.
    By your leave.                                      [Knocks]
    I never sued to friend nor enemy;
  There my white stole of chastity I daffed,
  HORTENSIO. But, wrangling pedant, this is
    Whereof the King my brother was possess'd.
    Dost thou not see my baby at my breast
    Because we see it; but what we do not see
  DOLL. I'll tell you what, you thin man in a censer, I will have you
    heart.
    While you are thus employ'd, what resteth more
  Nurse. God ye good morrow, gentlemen.
    Made Lud's Town with rejoicing fires bright
  ENOBARBUS. I Will praise any man that will praise me; though it  
    What's past and what's to come is strew'd with husks
    For now hath time made me his numb'ring clock:

    lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king's mess. 'Tis
  PUCK.      If we shadows have offended,
  GLOUCESTER. Thine eyes, sweet lady, have infected mine.
    coat.
  ARMADO. Men of peace, well encount'red.
  DEIPHOBUS. Let us make ready straight.
    Which is the ladder of all high designs,
  ESCALUS. Call that same Isabel here once again; I would speak with
    the hell of having a false woman! My bed shall be abus'd,
    Against the bosom of the Prince of Wales.
    Reply not in how many fathoms deep
   The Gordian knot of it he will unloose,  
  YORK. Thanks, gentle Norfolk. Stay by me, my lords;
    That gives sweet tidings of the sun's uprise?
  KING JOHN. Though you and all the kings of Christendom
    Whose club kill'd Cerberus, that three-headed canus;
                            Enter PAGE
                                and then a great flourish of trumpets
    O'ertake pursu'd success, but I do feel,
    That I may see again.
    And for we think the eagle-winged pride
    As I seem now. Their transformations
    Is dearly bought, 'tis mine, and I will have it.
  GRIFFITH. Well, the voice goes, madam;  
    Be drops of balm to sanctify thy head;
   And so the Prince obscur'd his contemplation
  Some in their hawks and hounds, some in their horse.
  ORLEANS. O brave spirit!
    And that thou art so, there I throw my gage,
  TIMON. Is't true? Can't be?
  SOOTHSAYER. Ay, Caesar, but not gone.
    And he that throws not up his cap for joy
    Experience is by industry achiev'd,
    Did not you speak?
    The letter, as I live, with all the business
  SECOND SERVANT. And I shall.                              Exit
    They shall be praying nuns, not weeping queens;

    But taken and impounded as a stray
     You beastly knave, know you no reverence?
    Great King, I am no strumpet, by my life;
    The ministration and required office

  GOBBO. Alack the day, I know you not, young gentleman; but I pray
    And have their provender tied to their mouths,
    If he would spend his power. God save you, sir.
  FLUELLEN. I think it is in Macedon where Alexander is porn. I tell  
    But if I give my wife a handkerchief-
    Hath made thee handless in thy father's sight?
      Purpose is but the slave to memory,
    No? Then I well perceive you are not nigh.
    If yet your gentle souls fly in the air
  FLAVIUS. It is no matter; let no images
  QUEEN ISABEL. God, the best maker of all marriages,
    Quarter'd the world, and o'er green Neptune's back
    On any ground that I am ruler of,
SCENE II.
     To quit this horrid act.

  CHARMIAN. Madam, I will.
    Fill me a bowl of wine. Give me a watch.
    Than those for preservation cas'd or shame-
    Have done a drunken slaughter and defac'd
OLIVIA'S house
    then make sport at me, then let me be your jest; I deserve
  
    From giving reins and spurs to my free speech;
    thief.
    And bear the palm alone. Shout.                    Flourish.
    [Aside]  Their heads I mean. O, how this villainy
    Preys on the issue of his mother's body
  PANDARUS. Where? yonder? That's Deiphobus. 'Tis Troilus. There's a
    With thy sharp teeth this knot intrinsicate
    have the foppery of freedom as the morality of imprisonment.
    To rid the realm of this pernicious blot?
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    becomes none but tradesmen, and they often give us soldiers the
  PROTEUS. But dost thou hear? Gav'st thou my letter to Julia?
    Is the initiate fear that wants hard use.
    no bate with telling of discreet stories; and such other gambol
  Balth. Which is one?
    Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
    Can pierce a complete bosom. Why I desire thee
  LORD. 'Tis very true; thou didst it excellent.
            PYRAMUS and THISBY, WALL, MOONSHINE, and LION
Enter ARTHUR, on the walls
    withal.
  THERSITES. But yet you look not well upon him; for who some ever
  LUCILIUS. So Brutus should be found. I thank thee, Brutus,
    I say again, if Lewis do will the day,
    I hate not you for her proud arrogance.
    Which often thus correcting thy-stout heart,
    Therefore-to speak, and to avoid the first,
    Is left untender'd.
    And the gods doom him after!

    To show less sovereignty than they, must needs
  Ant. He is very busy about it. But, brother, I can tell you strange
  SLY. I'll pheeze you, in faith.

  HOLOFERNES. Sir Nathaniel, will you hear an extemporal epitaph on

  STEPHANO. What's the matter? Have we devils here? Do you
    By giving it the worship of revenge.
    And hast the comfort of thy children left;
    If it be not, forswear't; howe'er, I charge thee,
    Do you not smile at this, Lord Angelo?
  Who heaven it self for ornament doth use,
  FORD. Pray you come near. If I suspect without cause, why
    So, in the famous ancient city Tours,
    You shall ask pardon of his Majesty.
    Ere one can say 'It lightens.' Sweet, good night!

  Dog. It shall be suffigance.
    Is now transported, gentles, to Southampton;
    But, whiles he thought to steal the single ten,
  CLAUDIO. No.
  THIRD CITIZEN. And so was I; I'll bear you company.
    Hours dreadful and things strange, but this sore night
    And therefore, living hence, did give ourself
    will do me any honour, so; if not, let him kill the next Percy
    When in one line two crafts directly meet.  
    The causes of their death appear, unto
  ROSS. No good at all that I can do for him;
    Lord, Lord! how the ladies and I have put him down!
    received some small kindnesses from him, as money, plate, jewels,  
     That, when we have found the King (in which your pain
    Thy mistress is o' th' brothel. Son of sixteen,
    told.
    See, ruthless queen, a hapless father's tears.
    And make them tame to their obedience!
    Most palates theirs. They choose their magistrate;
  DEMETRIUS. Are you sure
  CAMILLO. Good my lord, be cur'd
    From forth thy plenteous bosom, one poor root!
    them whipt; or I would send them to th' Turk to make eunuchs of.
    And that the French were almost ten to one,

    Send for your ring, I will return it home,
    Which not to cut would show thee but a fool,
    Scandal'd the suppliants for the people, call'd them
  Ham. Well, God-a-mercy.

    The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces,
  ANTONIO. He misses not much.
  My bonds in thee are all determinate.  
    She's a good creature, and, sweet lady, does
  EVANS. But can you affection the oman? Let us command to
    More tight at this than thou. Dispatch. O love,

    With truth and plainness I do wear mine bare.
    And yet your fair discourse hath been as sugar,
    Commit them to the fortune of the sea.

  LEWIS. A noble temper dost thou show in this;
  KING. This 'maid' not serve your turn, sir.
  Claud. O, what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily do, not

  DESDEMONA. Shall I deny you? No. Farewell, my lord.
    But rather, moody-mad and desperate stags,  
    Do draw the inward quality after them,
    speaks not o' God's name. Go, take him away, I say, and strike
    Of greatest justice. Write, write, Rinaldo,
    The charges of our friends. The Roman gods,
  Claud. Neither, my lord.
  SECOND LORD. If you had sent but two hours before-
     It came even from the heart of- O! she's dead!
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Pitchers have ears.
    here, where you are, they are coming to perform it.
    I cannot give due action to my words

    Have banish'd me from Scotland. O my breast,
    Though you, it seems, come from the fliers.
    will breed no terror in the youth: he will find it comes from a
  JAQUENETTA. God bless the King!
    Rememb'ring how I love thy company.
  CLEOPATRA. No more but e'en a woman, and commanded
    dozens? Is this Moorfields to muster in? Or have we some
  MARCUS. You sad-fac'd men, people and sons of Rome,
    Honest Iago hath ta'en order for't.
    And if your wife be not a mad woman,
    Where dust and damn'd oblivion is the tomb
  HOSTESS. As ever you come of women, come in quickly to Sir John.  
    What you commanded me, but by her woman
    Should now eat up her own!
    And show thee all the treasure we have got;  

    wonderful thing to see the semblable coherence of his men's  
  SLENDER. How does your fallow greyhound, sir? I heard say

                        Enter a MESSENGER
  Alb. O Goneril,
    The very devils cannot plague them better.              Exit
  MARGARET. Why, what concerns his freedom unto me?
    You'ld have enough.
  VIOLA. My lord, I do protest-
    And tempt not yet the brushes of the war.
    And what I do imagine, let that rest.
         '"Gamut" I am, the ground of all accord-
    For thou dost fear the soft and tender fork
    The sweetness of affiance! Show men dutiful?
    The more my prayer, the lesser is my grace.
  FOURTH LORD. Here lies my gown.  
    If it would please him come and marry her!'
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Who knows on whom fortune would then have smil'd?
    And follow Marcius.           [They all shout and wave their  
    With being nothing.                    [The music plays]
    Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee,
  MARCUS. My lord- to step out of these dreary dumps-
    But where is Kate? Where is my lovely bride?

  SEBASTIAN.  [Aside to ANTONIO]  I say, to-night; no more.
    Whether, if you yield not to your father's choice,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  COMINIUS
    Park; we two must go together.
    Than is thy strange apparent cruelty;
  FALSTAFF. Bardolph, follow him. A tapster is a good trade;

<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    We will entice the Duke of Burgundy
                            Enter Goneril.
    Of the old rage; bear with me, I am sick;
    Awakes my conscience to confess all this.
  POINS. Deliver'd with good respect. And how doth the martlemas,
    They have plac'd their men of trust?
     I would divorce me from thy mother's tomb,
    horsehairs and calves' guts, nor the voice of unpaved eunuch to
    As in a soul rememb'ring my good friends;
  GLOUCESTER. I go; and if you plead as well for them
  ARMADO.  The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
    was ill sorted. Therefore captains had need look to't.
    That never slept a quiet hour with thee
  VINCENTIO.  [Seeing BIONDELLO]  Come hither, crack-hemp.

    Than Edward will for tidings of my death.
   me.

    Hath brought me to thy hearth; not out of hope,
                            Re-enter CORIOLANUS
    shape; he cannot abide the old woman of Brainford; he
    But breeds the giver a return exceeding
    That stays to bear my letters to my friends,

  HUBERT. Old men and beldams in the streets
    By yielding up thy body to my will;

    That will say anything. But were they false
    Make way to lay them by their brethren.
    The rage be his, whilst on the earth I rain
  BOLINGBROKE. Mine innocence and Saint George to thrive!
           Lucilius, Titinius, Messala, and others.
    The head is not more native to the heart,
    If not to answer, you might haply think
             Now am I fled;
  If it were filled with your most high deserts?


        Enter the KING and his train, the LORD CHIEF JUSTICE
    Absolute queen.
  LIEUTENANT, to Aufidius
    He doth intend she shall be England's Queen.
    You patch'd up your excuses.  
  Leon. She doth indeed; my daughter says so. And the ecstasy hath so
    with my butter, Parson Hugh the Welshman with my
Plains near Rome
    Heaven shield my mother play'd my father fair!
    And banish hence these abject lowly dreams.

  BRUTUS. Thy master is a wise and valiant Roman;
    my brother, and the Princess, my sister, call'd my father father.
    To say he'll turn your current in a ditch,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. A trusty villain, sir, that very oft,
    My lord is not my lord, nor should I know him

    for their sakes, more than the villainous inconstancy of
  CAPTAIN. And so is now, or was so very late;
  DUKE. There was a friar told me of this man.
SECOND MERCHANT. You know since Pentecost the sum is due,
  DESDEMONA. Who's there? Othello?
    Would suffer him to spend his youth at home,
    To deck his fortune with his virtuous deeds.
  ABHORSON. Sirrah, bring Barnardine hither.
    That heaven hath infused them with these spirits
    Prithee, hie thee; he'll come anon-

    Are wreck'd three nights ago on Goodwin Sands;
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
                     Other plains of Gascony
    Doing himself offense, whilst we lying still
  SICILIUS. No more, thou thunder-master, show
    comes.

  PAROLLES. He will steal, sir, an egg out of a cloister; for rapes
    Cometh Andronicus, bound with laurel boughs,
    What I have spoke or thou canst worst devise.
    Who woo'd in haste and means to wed at leisure.
    Thy full supremacy thou knew'st, and that
    my eldest brother; and in the gentle condition of blood, you
    The people will accept whom he admits.
    So mighty are his vowed enemies.
  What now? How chance thou art return'd so soon?
  Rom. Bid a sick man in sadness make his will.
  SEBASTIAN. Well, I am standing water.
    O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
    And though that nature with a beauteous wall
    With tears drawn from her eyes by your foul wrongs;
    And that thou teachest how to make one twain,
    Of the good Queen, but the sharp thorny points
    Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
    Demanding of King Henry's life and death
    Whose far unworthy deputy I am,  
  CYMBELINE. Our expectation that it would be thus
    the commons of Melford.' How now, sir knave!
    out of a song, as a weasel sucks eggs. More, I prithee, more.
    To acquaint you with this evil, that you might
    Commend me to thy brother, Edmund York.


    But weep to have, that which it fears to lose.
    I will conclude to hate her, nay, indeed,
    Or make some sign how I may do thee ease.
  Lear. What's he?

  Gon. 'Tis his own blame; hath put himself from rest
    This casket threatens; men that hazard all
  PEASEBLOSSOM, fairy  
  DIOMEDES. I will have this. Whose was it?
  COMINIUS. You have holp to ravish your own daughters and
London. The palace
  Host. Marry, my lord, there is a nobleman of the court at door
    and a bed; which bed, because it shall not speak of your
  ORLANDO. Why, how now, Adam! No greater heart in thee? Live a

             Enter Gadshill, [Bardolph and Peto with him].
    Duke had not given him sixpence a day for playing Pyramus, I'll
  PLANTAGENET. First, lean thine aged back against mine arm;
  I see, sir, you have found the goldsmith now.

  CONSTABLE. Just, just! and the men do sympathise with the mastiffs
    And there we will abide. I do desire you
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    would walk off I would prick your guts a little, in good terms,
  CRESSIDA. What, this?  
  MACBETH. A friend.
    Thou, Julia, thou hast metamorphis'd me,
    Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!

    And drink carouses to the next day's fate,
  ACHILLES. No.
    yourself too much in the action, mounsieur; and, good mounsieur,
     To see the things thou dost not. Now, now, now, now!
                         Exeunt ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, and ENOBARBUS
    So, so, thou common dog, didst thou disgorge

    Which she did use as she was writing of it,
     What place this is; and all the skill I have
    But I will beard him.
    The passion of loud laughter never shed.  
  TIMON. War'st thou 'gainst Athens?

    Commands me name myself.
    But shadows and the shows of men, to fight;
  Gads. Good morrow, carriers. What's o'clock?
    And you the Empress! But we worldly men
  SERVANT. Where is my lady?  
    [sings] lady, lady, lady.
  SHYLOCK. I had forgot- three months; you told me so.
  HORTENSIO. Madam, 'tis now in tune.


  PROSPERO. Fury, Fury! There, Tyrant, there! Hark, hark!
    beauty.
    For how can I help them and not myself?
          And my ending is despair
    Come hither, ere my tree hath felt the axe,
    The Senate hath sent about three several quests

  KING. Ay, by my sceptre and my hopes of heaven.  
                                Exeunt. Manent Prince, Falstaff.
by William Shakespeare
  CASSIO. 'Tis such another fitchew! marry, a perfumed one.
  Kent. To be acknowledg'd, madam, is o'erpaid.

    Of my Lord Hastings' late imprisonment.
    Away, I say. Stayest thou to vex me here?        Exit LAUNCE
    Is overthrown by noble Brutus' power,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SCENE VI.
  CADE. Away with him, away with him! He speaks Latin.
  SNOUT. O Bottom, thou art chang'd! What do I see on thee?
    aloud to him!
  OTHELLO. To fetch her fan, her gloves, her mask, nor nothing?
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  ARMADO.  Until the goose came out of door,
  TRANIO. I pray, sir, tell me, is it possible
    O him she stores, to show what wealth she had,
    spy entertainment in her; she discourses, she carves, she
  BRUTUS. Good night, good brother.
    You see how all conditions, how all minds-
    after I saw him fumble with the sheets, and play with flowers,
  ANTONIO. Content, in faith; I'll seal to such a bond,
    The appetite may sicken and so die.
    Take heed, take heed, for such die miserable.
    speak no more; whose very naming punishes me with the remembrance  
  BANQUO. What, sir, not yet at rest? The King's abed.  
    day's service at Shrewsbury hath a little gilded over your
    The multitude, beside themselves with fear,
    Were enough noble to be upright judge
    Let specialities be therefore drawn between us,
Before Macbeth's castle.  Hautboys and torches.
  KING EDWARD. So other foes may set upon our backs.
    As does a Britain peasant. So I'll fight
             So awake when I am gone;

    And marry sweet Bianca with consent.

    Publicola, and Caelius are for sea;
Scene II.

    I will not live to be accounted Warwick.
    As they contend with thee in courtesy.
    If he appeal the Duke on ancient malice,
    Though every drop of water swear against it,  
  SUFFOLK. Why, that's well said. Go, get you to my house;
    In our last conference, pass'd in probation with you:
  Ah do not, when my heart hath 'scaped this sorrow,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Somebody call my wife. Youth in a basket! O you panderly
    Whose father for his hoarding went to hell?
    Follow me, sirs, and my proceedings eye.
    Proteus to the Imperial's court. I think Crab my dog be the
  COSTARD. Not a word of Costard yet.  

  OTHELLO. Ha! wherefore?
  ELBOW. Come your ways, sir; come.
    Are we not beaten? Is not Angiers lost?
    Brook, that you have cozen'd of money, to whom you
    How they might hurt their enemies, if they durst;
    His insolence can brook to be commanded
    Some that will evermore peep through their eyes,
    Fall'n on th' inventors' heads. All this can I
    Into the hearts of such as have not thrived
  EMILIA. Fie, fie upon thee, strumpet!  
    He bears the sentence well, that nothing bears
    Make it no wonder; if you knew my business,
    I cannot truly say how I came here,
    O, do ye read, my lord, what she hath writ?
  FALSTAFF. I would you had but the wit; 'twere better than your
    For France, 'tis ours; and we will keep it still.
  AGUECHEEK. I knew 'twas I; for many do call me fool.
  Mer. Without his roe, like a dried herring. O flesh, flesh, how art  
    And least proportion of humanity.
                Enter Cornwall, Regan, and Attendants.
    And is in full commission here for Cyprus.
  Lear. O, how this mother swells up toward my heart!
  ANTONY. From Sicyon, ho, the news! Speak there!
  CLIFFORD. Soldiers, away with him!
    and vain-glories?
    Be sure you be not loose; for those you make friends

    Give guess how near to day. Lucius, I say!
    Or be a known friend, 'gainst his Highness' pleasure-
    come back to my master's as soon as I can.
    prodigal portion have I spent that I should come to such penury?
    A huge half-moon, a monstrous cantle out.
    In Russian habit; here they stayed an hour
    For by the image of my cause I see
    faults, I drink to you.
    I ne'er again shall see her. O thou mine heir
    They clip us drunkards and with swinish phrase
    And bid me say to you by word of mouth-
  LUCENTIO. O Tranio, till I found it to be true,
  SILVIA. At Friar Patrick's cell,
    Westminster,
    Or to exclaim on fortune's fickleness.
  PETRUCHIO. It shall be seven ere I go to horse.
  Sher. Indeed, my lord, I think it be two o'clock.

    Thy mother rather feel thy pride than fear
    Macbeth shall never vanquish'd be until
    See you the fornicatress be remov'd;  

  PORTIA. Shylock, there's thrice thy money off'red thee.
    Since I can reason of it. Pray you trust me here.  
    Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
    have prevented, if he had been there to command.
     Told him my pilgrimage. But his flaw'd heart
  PISTOL. The figo for thee, then!
    Will much impeach the justice of the state,
  AUFIDIUS. I know it;
    Master Froth, and you will hang them. Get you gone, and let me

    And fall to reprobation.
  Poins. Tut! our horses they shall not see- I'll tie them in the
    What's this, what's this? Is this her fault or mine?
  FIRST LORD. But not every man patient after the noble temper of
  GLOUCESTER. He lives that loves thee better than he could.  
    Have miserable, mad, mistaking eyes.
    With no less honour to the Antiates
    In drops of crimson blood.
  And go indeed, having so good a mean.
    And thorough this distemperature we see
    Juno sings her blessings on you.
    Gentlemen all- alas, what shall I say?
    sack. For my part, the sea cannot drown me; I swam, ere
  CASSIO. I have drunk but one cup tonight, and that was craftily  
  FIRST LORD. Your lordship is the most patient man in loss, the most
    counsel.
    That made great Jove to humble him to her hand,
by William Shakespeare

    Thou shalt be so well master'd; but, be sure,
    Till storms be past of civil enmity.
    Are come to play a pleasant comedy;
    Uncomfortable time, why cam'st thou now
    Hath stol'n it from her?
    The roofs of palaces, and nature prompts them
  Alb. He is not here.
  VARRO'S SERVANT. Is't not your business too?
    hast built a paper-mill. It will be proved to thy face that thou  
    and bid those that are drunk get them to bed.  
    Will ye, like soldiers, come and fight it out?
  AGUECHEEK. Why, I think so; I am not such an ass but I can keep my
  PEDANT. Ay, sir; so his mother says, if I may believe her.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Boyet, prepare; I will away to-night.
  PANDARUS. He is elder.
    When my good stars, that were my former guides,

  BIGOT. Or, when he doom'd this beauty to a grave,
    Wouldst thou have practis'd on me for thy use-
    From John of Gaunt doth bring his pedigree,
                         SCENE VI.
  LUCIUS. Ay me! this object kills me.  
  SNARE. Here, here.
  POMPEY. [ Whispers in's ear ] Forbear me till anon-
    Where we, in all her trim, freshly beheld
    This pert Berowne was out of count'nance quite.
  PARIS. See, ho! Who is that there?

    tell myself; and yet 'tis a milkmaid; yet 'tis not a maid, for
  COUNTESS. Have you, I, say, an answer of such fitness for all
    Our certain death; therefore it is decreed
  I could not speak with Dromio since at first
  KING RICHARD. There let him sink, and be the seas on him!
  SILENCE. By my troth, I was not there.
  CRESSIDA. If he do, the rich shall have more.
    Paris is lost; the state of Normandy
    are not prisoner.
    coals for money.
  Rom. This day's black fate on moe days doth depend;
  Pedro. Hang him, truant! There's no true drop of blood in him to be
    Enjoy mine own, the country Maine and Anjou,
  CHIEF JUSTICE. What foolish master taught you these manners, Sir
  CLEOPATRA. Let him come in.                     Exit GUARDSMAN
    For nothing can be ill if she be well.
  KING HENRY. Stain to thy countrymen, thou hear'st thy
    Lord Card'nal, if thou think'st on heaven's bliss,
    court?

    Was all the harm I did. These gentle princes-
    Melt and lament for her.
  LUCILIUS. Humbly I thank your lordship. Never may
    I saw him down; thrice up again, and fighting;
    from me, sorrow abides and happiness takes his leave.
    Touches me deeper than you can imagine.
  SHEPHERD. Heavy matters, heavy matters! But look thee here, boy.
    'Twas where the madcap Duke his uncle kept-
  ESCALUS. Alas, it hath been great pains to you! They do you wrong  
    You must no more call it York Place: that's past:
                                       Exeunt [Hero and Ursula].
    Of what I spoke, unpitied let me die;
      King of France.
    All may be well; but, if God sort it so,
    Say I am dancing; if in mirth, report
    Ring the alarum bell! Blow, wind! Come, wrack!
    Have left their places vacant, in their rooms
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>

  LUCILIUS. He is at hand, and Pindarus is come
    Than an unstringed viol or a harp;  
    Therefore accept such kindness as I can.
  SALERIO. I would you had won the fleece that he hath lost.
    There is a devilish mercy in the judge,

  CLEOPATRA. Not know me yet?
    By my old beard,
  NURSE. Good morrow, lords.
    have we here?
    baldrick, all women shall pardon me. Because I will not do them
    I am sure, is sent for.
    bring ourselves to be monstrous members.
  IACHIMO. You must not so far prefer her fore ours of Italy.  
    Without debatement further, more or less,
  Hero. Good morrow, coz.
    And thou shalt prove a shelter to thy friends,
    And live we how we can, yet die we must.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Come, come, my boy; we will to
    Such as we see when men restrain their breath
    cried 'budget' as Anne and I had appointed; and yet it was

    And in our coronation take your place.
    Wherein my hope is I shall so prevail
  Marg. I'll make her come, I warrant you, presently.    [Exit.]
     To keep base life afoot. Return with her?
    By the Athenian garments he hath on.

  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Madam, he's gone to serve the Duke of Florence.

    Lend me your knees, and all my life to come
    him.  
  WILLIAM. Lapis.
    Fie, doff this habit, shame to your estate,
    As seal to this indenture of my love:
    And summon him to-morrow to the Tower,
    Are therefore to be pitied.
           gentle actions of salutations; and inviting the
  RODERIGO. I do follow here in the chase, not like a hound that
    a coward, as you then reported him to be?
    Marry, and shall. But, how now, Sir John Hume!

    Will seize the doctor too. How ended she?
  ISABELLA. Ha! little honour to be much believ'd,
  To win me soon to hell my female evil,
    Thus will I fold them one upon another;  
  MALVOLIO. Sir!
  CYMBELINE. Why, old soldier,
  For men discased, but I my mistress' thrall,
  Ham. Why,
    The Anthropophagi, and men whose heads
    Yet in this trial much opinion dwells;
    Some way of common trade, where subjects' feet
                       Enter VARRIUS
    And then 'twas fresh in murmur- as, you know,
    Or Ethiopian's tooth, or the fann'd snow that's bolted

    He doth object I am too great of birth;
    inventory to particularize their abundance; our sufferance is a
    Now Valentine is banish'd from her sight.
    I am hush'd until our city be afire,
    a pleasure, me a sport. There are many events in the womb of time
      His steeds to water at those springs
    Against our borrowing prayers.
Enter the three Witches.
  Fal. Thou hast the most unsavoury similes, and art indeed the most
    suitable for destruction. For these my present friends, as they  
    Speak of me as I am; nothing extenuate,
  SOOTHSAYER. Caesar's.
  Fal. I'll follow, as they say, for reward. He that rewards me, God
HASTINGS, and others; from the other side, PRINCE JOHN of LANCASTER,


    The Prince must think me tardy and remiss,
               Enter the EARLS OF WARWICK and SALISBURY
  Pol. I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
  ROSALIND. Nay; now thou goest from Fortune's office to Nature's:
    And, in thy closet pent up, rue my shame
    Say he be taken, rack'd, and tortured;
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Are they returned to the court?
    Than die ere I hear more. Strive, man, and speak.
    no fool, sir, till she be married; and fools are as like husbands
    Which at the first are scarce found to distaste,
    And bears his thoughts above his falcon's pitch.
    Poor breathing orators of miseries,
with soldiers marching
    of prosperity, with a discovery of the infinite flatteries that
    And set thee by Jove's side. Yet come a little.
  PROCULEIUS. Hold, worthy lady, hold,             [Disarms her]
  Kent. Nor tripp'd neither, you base football player?
              O blessed bond of board and bed!
     Exit.
    Run reeking o'er the lives of men, as if
  CLOWN. I did impeticos thy gratillity; for Malvolio's nose is no
    Hath to the marbled mansion all above


Enter the three Witches.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    May make some stronger head- the which he hearing,
    Please it this matron and this gentle maid
  TROILUS. This foolish, dreaming, superstitious girl

  JAQUENETTA. Good Master Parson, be so good as read me this letter;

ACT III. SCENE 5.
     which is the justice, which is the thief? Thou hast seen a
  AUMERLE. Northumberland comes back from Bolingbroke.
  ANTIGONUS. If it be so,
  OCTAVIA. You have not call'd me so, nor have you cause.
  GLOUCESTER. By such despair I should accuse myself.
             For it is unpeopled? No;
  SIR TOBY. And with what wing the staniel checks at it!
    Men well inclin'd to hear what thou command'st.  
SCENE III.
  TAILOR.  [Reads]  'The sleeves curiously cut.'
    Nor would your noble mother for much more
    out of thy mouth, as wine comes out of narrow-mouth'd bottle-
    Vexations of it! Had I been thief-stol'n,

    But rather make you thank your pains for it.
    half-cheek'd bit, and a head-stall of sheep's leather which,
  KING HENRY. O piteous spectacle! O bloody times!
                           SCENE XIII.
    Go thou, and Eke an executioner
    Is, of a king, become a banish'd man,
    Comes all the praises that I now bestow,
  ULYSSES. At Menelaus' tent, most princely Troilus.
    To be seduced by thy flattery
  PISTOL. Tell him my fury shall abate, and I
  ANTONY. I doubt not of your wisdom.  
    Another moon; but, O, methinks, how slow
  Of amber, crystal, and of beaded jet,
    I have a mind presages me such thrift
    Or nourish'd him as I did with my blood,
    above is my master.
  ANTONY. Dead.
  Nurse. I speak no treason.
    I thought upon Antonio when he told me,
    Yet hath he in him such a mind of honour
    A borrowed title hast thou bought too dear:
  ANTONIO. Very foul.
    My head as I do his.
    To bar your Highness claiming from the female;
      Enter SIR JOHN FALSTAFF, BARDOLPH, NYM, and PISTOL
    And cry myself awake? That's false to's bed,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  DOCTOR. I have two nights watched with you, but can perceive no
    And tell me, then, have you not broke your oaths?
    I weep myself, to think upon thy words.
    A son who is the theme of honour's tongue,
  FABIAN. We shall have a rare letter from him; but you'll not

                                            [Exit an attendant.]
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Sir John Falstaff, a word with you.
    By you unhappied and disfigured clean;
    The edge of war, like an ill-sheathed knife,
    To cast thee up again. What may this mean  
  YORK. I will be satisfied; let me see it, I say.
    him for th' entertainment of death.
    Distasted with the salt of broken tears.
  Bear a fair presence, though your heart be tainted;
  SERVILIUS. Yes, sir, I shall.
    What says Lord Stanley? Will he bring his power?
  Which like a canker in the fragrant rose,
    Bid him make haste and meet me at the Northgate.
    redeems him.
  Par. Come you to make confession to this father?
    [To AUMERLE] We do debase ourselves, cousin, do we not,
  MACBETH. I conjure you, by that which you profess


                                                 Exit LIEUTENANT
  But day by night and night by day oppressed.
    More than light airs and recollected terms
    might water an ass at it. I had rather be a tick in a sheep than
  Arch. Hie, good Sir Michael; bear this sealed brief
    Outfaced infant state, and done a rape
    And made me climb, With danger of my life.
    The vapour of our valour will o'erturn them.
    Thy scarlet robes as a child's bearing-cloth
    Romeo!
    JAMES GURNEY, servant to Lady Faulconbridge
  She had transform'd me to a curtal dog, and made me turn i' th' wheel.
    I'd with thee every foot.
  Unkindness blunts it more than marble hard.
    lady will hang thee for thy absence.
  WARWICK. From worthy Edward, King of Albion,
               If wishes would prevail with me,
  JULIA. About my stature; for at Pentecost,
    And, on a safer judgment, all revoke
  BASSANIO. You have obtain'd it.
    'Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. A segregation of the Turkish fleet.
    Should I repent me; but once put out thy light,
    But let thy spiders, that suck up thy venom,
    And I beseech your Majesty to make it
    Fancies too weak for boys, too green and idle
  But why of two oaths' breach do I accuse thee,  
  THERSITES. No! Why art thou, then, exasperate, thou idle immaterial
  PAROLLES. An idle lord, I swear.

  OTHELLO.                          If it be that-
  TIMON. Consumptions sow
    O, had we never, never hunted there!-
  PISTOL. I will retort the sum in equipage.
  LADY MACBETH. All our service
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Not to be weary with you, he's in prison.
    Pardon is still the nurse of second woe.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    The noble Brutus, thrusting this report

    Let him go hence and, with his cap in hand
  KING. Tell me, sirrah-but tell me true I charge you,
    Must minister to himself.
    more than their even-Christen. Come, my spade! There is no
    My rightful hand in a well-hallow'd cause.
    All springs reduce their currents to mine eyes
    To make coals cheap- a noble memory!
    too, and ambiguides.
    Persuades me I was better when a king;
    With untired spirits and formal constancy.  
    At our enlargement what are thy due fees?
    Above yon busky hill! The day looks pale
  AUFIDIUS. Why, noble lords,
    Here comes the rogue. Sirrah, where have you been?
    Which argued thee a most unloving father.
    Where our desire is got without content.
    Never yet branded with suspicion?

  CELIA. Were you made the messenger?
    the rich are damn'd; but if I may have your ladyship's good will
    am glad to see your lordship abroad. I heard say your lordship
    Have done the time more benefit, and grac'd

    For your advancement! Do you understand me?
    How easy is it for the proper-false
  LUCIO. My lord, here comes the rascal I spoke of, here with the  
    If drink rock not his cradle.
  SHALLOW. It doth, it doth, it doth.
    a foolish song. God buy you; and God mend your voices. Come,
    And, would you represent our queen aright,
    That should deracinate such savagery;
  Not marble, nor the gilded monuments
  PROSPERO. Dost thou think so, spirit?
  APEMANTUS. Dost hate a medlar?
    Makes nice of no vile hold to stay him up;
    For forth he goes and visits all his host;
  DUMAIN. That mint.
LUCE.  [Within]  I thought to have ask'd you.
     Some blood drawn on me would beget opinion  
    To send such peevish tokens to a king.
    Here is a pur of Fortune's, sir, or of Fortune's cat, but not
    Nay, come, I pray thee speak. Good, good nurse, speak.
  FIRST SERVANT. Such a house broke!

    Be quite degraded, like a hedge-born swain
    If ever I thy face by daylight see;
  KING RICHARD. Here pitch our tent, even here in Bosworth
    I am a scribbled form drawn with a pen
Inverness. Macbeth's castle.
    money, I pray you; that kills my heart.
DUKE. Hapless, Aegeon, whom the fates have mark'd
    That late he married- hath referr'd herself
    That only to stand high in your account
                          Exeunt all but the KING and the PRINCE
    [To CAMILLO]  Is it not too far gone? 'Tis time to part them.
  And thou away, the very birds are mute.
  MERCHANT. He'll spare none.
    Come, ho, and wake Diana with a hymn;
    By these exterior shows? But she is none:  

     Against my fire; and wast thou fain, poor father,
  ULYSSES. O Agamemnon, let it not be so!
  DICK. [Aside] She was, indeed, a pedlar's daughter, and sold many
    I'll canvass thee in thy broad cardinal's hat,
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. So just is God to right the innocent.
    Swell'st thou, proud heart? I'll give thee scope to beat,
    How that the guilty kindred of the Queen
    This fest'red joint cut off, the rest rest sound;
    As 'tis no better reckon'd but of those
    But after many ceremonies done
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    But fierce Andronicus would not relent.  
    And passion, having my best judgement collied,



  And every fair from fair sometime declines,
    Rust, sword; cool, blushes; and, Parolles, live
                                               Exeunt attendants
    Make tender of to thy true worthiness.
    To chide my fortune, and torment myself?
  BERTRAM. A plague upon him! muffled! He can say nothing of me.
  Th' uncertain sickly appetite to please:
    To parley or to fight, therefore prepare.
    Priests pray for enemies, but princes kill.             Exit
    As she from one ungot.
    Moe widows in them of this business' making,
  DESDEMONA.                 I pray, talk me of Cassio.
    An if this be at all-a most strange story.  
    You have paid home; but that you have vouchsaf'd,
    Were never for a piece of beauty rarer,
  Gent. Near and on speedy foot. The main descry
          And thou shalt have more
    Though his bark cannot be lost,
    He is thy crutch; now if thou lose thy stay,  
    zounds, I lie; for they pray continually to their saint, the  
    The shady curtains from Aurora's bed,
    That I may not be so, nor thou belied,

Enter MISTRESS PAGE, with a letter

  Hor. A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
    I am supposed dead. The army breaking,
  TAMORA. Well hast thou lesson'd us; this shall we do.  
    Painted upon a pole, and underwrit,
    That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
    As soul to soul affordeth?
  OTHELLO. What? what?
  LEPIDUS. Trouble yourselves no further. Pray you hasten
    And solemnly see him set on to London.

    And you tell me that he shall die for't.

    In the south suburbs, at the Elephant,
    At a crack'd drachma! Cushions, leaden spoons,
    That flesh is heir to. 'Tis a consummation  
  KATHERINA. Call you me daughter? Now I promise you  
    Which gives men stomach to digest his words
    My friends were poor, but honest; so's my love.
  'So on the tip of his subduing tongue
    Is this, in way of truth. Yet, ne'er the less,  
    A minister in his power. You know his nature,
    Good Brabantio,  
    Moreover that we much did long to see you,
    Old Signior Gremio has in Padua;
    Will you sit down?
    Poins; he is of too high a region, he knows too much. No,
  LUCIO. [ Within] Ho! Peace be in this place!

    Assure yourself, after our ship did split,
    they not speak?
    Are in thy vessel. Let me cut the cable;
    To make conditions.
    And not where I had aim'd them.
    So many captains, gentlemen, and soldiers,
    thee. Methink'st thou art a general offence, and every man should
    No worthier than the dust!
             Every one lets forth his sprite,
  ANDROMACHE. Here, sister, arm'd, and bloody in intent.
    Is here attending; her business looks in her
  CAESAR. Go forth, Agrippa, and begin the fight.
    Of these supposed crimes to give me leave
    Is he a lamb? His skin is surely lent him,
    obstinacy
Enter Portia and Lucius.
    Within this twelvemonth, or turn thou no more
     With the hell-hated lie o'erwhelm thy heart;
  PORTIA. Your wife would give you little thanks for that,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Nothing but this! Yes, as much love in rhyme
    Kinsmen to Titus:
    Where'er it be, in heaven or in earth.
    Who gave me fresh array and entertainment,
    But say this weed her love from Valentine,
  When to the sessions of sweet silent thought,
    That makes himself, but for our honour therein,
    little yellow beard, a Cain-colour'd beard.
    Or dare to bring thy force so near the court.
  Now counting best to be with you alone,
    And let not search and inquisition quail
    But why should honor outlive honesty?

  He had the dialect and different skill,
    Laertes before you fall to play.  

    your love do not persuade you to come, let not my letter.'
    Will I for ever, and my faction, wear,
                               Exeunt PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
    Let him confess a truth.
  GLOUCESTER. Tell me, sirrah, what's my name?
    Let what is dear in Sicily be cheap;
    Than those proud titles thou hast won of me.
Enter TRANIO as LUCENTIO, and HORTENSIO as LICIO
  KING RICHARD. You have a daughter call'd Elizabeth.
  Hor. Peace! Who comes here?
    Something unfilial. Reason my son
    That villain cousin would have kill'd my husband.
    After my speech is ended.

  SPEED. How then? Shall he marry her?
  CLEOPATRA. 'Tis sweating labour
  BOTH.      Quiet consummation have,
               Enter ROSALIND, SILVIUS, and PHEBE
    Which he did give himself- I know not how,
    England, from Trent and Severn hitherto,
LUCIANA. Ere I learn love, I'll practise to obey.
    You shall be as a father to my youth;

                   The English camp near Bordeaux
  KEEPER, I prithee sit by me awhile;
    Take leave, and part; for you must part forthwith.
    A twist of rotten silk; never admitting
    I seek to heal it only by his wealth.

    By his own interdiction stands accursed
  Nurse. Is it good-den?
  Who parted with me to go fetch a chain,
    My mistress here lies murther'd in her bed-
    Is purchase of a heavy curse from Rome
    Serve the King, and-prithee lead me in.
  Osr. Ay, my good lord.
  Th' offender's sorrow lends but weak relief
    Here are the beetle brows shall blush for me.
A crowd of people, among them Artemidorus and the Soothsayer.
  ANNE. Why, then he is alive.
    assemblance of a man! Give me the spirit, Master Shallow. Here's
    That knew'st the very bottom of my soul,
  FALSTAFF. As it were, to ride day and night; and not to deliberate,
  CASCA. Ay, marry, wast, and he put it by thrice, every time gentler
  Hor. 'Tis here!
    And then to crave a league of amity,
  CLEOMENES, DION. All this we swear.
    Go to the feast, revel and domineer,  
    The very last time we shall speak together.  
    Our very veins of life. Hear me more plainly.
    O, that I knew thy heart, and knew the beast,
    In his tail.
    And if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
    grieving.
    For two and twenty sons I never wept,
  Nor dare I question with my jealous thought,
  JOHN. Ay, rather than I'll shame my mother's womb.
    My swift command, though I with death and with
    afoot with me, and the stony-hearted villains know it well
    Then take him up, and manage well the jest:

    And at thy feet I kneel, with tears of joy
  CELIA. Well said; that was laid on with a trowel.
  Gent. Though that the Queen on special cause is here,

    I'll tell him yet of Angelo's request,
    pray you, let none of your people stir me; I have an exposition
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  SECOND SOLDIER. Peace, what noise?
      in her sleep signs of rejoicing, and holdeth up her
  
    the disciplines of war; and there is an end.          Exeunt
  ULYSSES. Thank the heavens, lord, thou art of sweet composure
  Prince. Wilt thou rob this leathern-jerkin, crystal-button,
  Fal. For God's sake, lords, convey my tristful queen!

  Edg. Away! the foul fiend follows me! Through the sharp hawthorn
  THIRD MESSENGER. My gracious lords, to add to your
    present for any emperor that ever trod on neat's
  Lear. Then leave her, sir; for, by the pow'r that made me,
    As if he mock'd himself and scorn'd his spirit
    my welkin- I might say 'element' but the word is overworn.
    And wear it for an honour in thy cap


    Your Majesty hath no just cause to hate me.
  LARTIUS. Now the fair goddess, Fortune,
    Young son, it argues a distempered head  
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. I thought she had some great matter there in
    Or overthrow incurable ensues.
    Were they not forced with those that should be ours,
SCENE V.
  KING EDWARD. So, lie thou there. Die thou, and die our fear;
    That wear upon your virgin branches yet  
    The enemies' drum is heard, and fearful scouring
    promise-breaker, the owner of no one good quality worthy your
    Is but his steward; no meed but he repays

    Through Alexandria make a jolly march;
    For, by this light, whereby I see thy beauty,
  CLIFFORD. Is Cade the son of Henry the Fifth,
    It ill beseems this presence to cry aim
  To walk where any honest men resort.
    A halter'd neck which does the hangman thank
  PETRUCHIO. 'Tis with cares.
    will make much of your voices, and so trouble you no farther.
    With saints dost bait thy hook! Most dangerous
    My judgment is we should not step too far
    the sun and the moon; or, rather, the sun, and not the moon- for

    Now sways it this way, like a mighty sea
  PORTIA. Speak not so grossly. You are all amaz'd.
    How now, Master Fenton!
    However it is spread in general name,
    the Spinii one Captain Spurio, with his cicatrice, an emblem of
  EDWARD. A wisp of straw were worth a thousand crowns
    A pair of bleeding hearts; thereon engrave
    And, interchanging blows, I quickly shed
  Beat. I am gone, though I am here. There is no love in you. Nay, I
    of these six dry, round, old, withered knights.' It ang'red him
    Is yet but unfelt thanks, which, more enrich'd,
    We coldly pause for thee. Chatillon, speak.
  Nurse. See where she comes from shrift with merry look.
     Is practice only. Give me my servant forth.
  HELENA. I shall not break your bidding, good my lord.
  Friar. Thou fond mad man, hear me a little speak.
    As hot Lord Percy is on fire to go.
  OTHELLO. O monstrous! monstrous!
    Can I do this, and cannot get a crown?

  Prince. Hot livers and cold purses.  
  Chief Watch. Sovereign, here lies the County Paris slain;
    without intervallums. O, it is much that a lie with a slight
    Had been incorporate. So we grew together,
    in it five weeks without changing.
  OCTAVIUS. Not that we love words better, as you do.
     Arms, arms! sword! fire! Corruption in the place!
    Quarrels unjust against the good and loyal,
    What time we will our celebration keep
    Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.

  DESDEMONA. I am very sorry that you are not well.
    your closet, you'll question this gentlewoman about me; and I
    For sweet discourses in our time to come.

  SECOND SOLDIER. Soldiers, have careful watch.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. What likelihood of his amendment,
     That dares not undertake. He'll not feel wrongs
  YORK. Lords, let him go. Please it your Majesty,
    All repetition. Let him not ask our pardon;
    Give me Bianca for my patrimony.
    Whose bloody deeds shall make an Europe quake.  
  LAVINIA. And, being intercepted in your sport,

    Whose haughty spirit, winged with desire,
    Whiles that his mountain sire- on mountain standing,
  And speak unto the same Aemilia!
    Some touches of remorse, or is your blood
    That not another comfort like to this

                                                        Exit GARDINER
  Corn. I will lay trust upon thee, and thou shalt find a dearer
  PROCULEIUS. O, temperance, lady!
  And frantic-mad with evermore unrest,
    kiss.
    Be packing, therefore, thou that wast a knight;
  Nurse. O lamentable day!
    Which in the very meeting fall and die!
    Was it well done of rash Virginius
  SHALLOW. He is not his craft's master, he doth not do it right. I
    Paid ere he promis'd; whereby his suit was granted
    and I'll be as good as my word; but speciously for Master
  Pet. You will not then?
              GENERAL, and TITUS LARTIUS; between them,
    To fly the boar before the boar pursues
    That give a coasting welcome ere it comes,
    He presently become a Christian;

  OCTAVIUS. Mark Antony, shall we give sign of battle?
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Upon my death the French can little boast;
    Then is all safe, the anchor in the port.
    love.
    What I can help thee to thou shalt not miss.          Exeunt
  For she will score your fault upon my pate.
    Determine for her; for Caesar cannot learn
  GEORGE. Argo, their thread of life is spun.
    The heavens so dim by day.  [Noise of hunt within]  A savage
    But twice or thrice was 'Proteus' written down.
    in you, even to the world's pleasure and the increase of
  JULIA. What think'st thou of the fair Sir Eglamour?
    would they had broke's neck.
    lips that I have kiss'd I know not how oft. Where be your gibes
    Unto his lordship, whose unwished yoke
  ACHILLES. Thou art too brief. I will the second time,
    Than you to punish.
    During their use, and slay us after.
  COUNTESS. Son, on my life,
    She's an adultress; I have said with whom.

  LONGAVILLE. So did our looks.
  BOTTOM. Nothing, good mounsieur, but to help Cavalery Cobweb to
  Claud. For this I owe you. Here comes other reckonings.
    He is a man, and, Clifford, cope with him.

  FALSTAFF. My king! my Jove! I speak to thee, my heart!
    Most audible, even from his proper tongue,
    as he thinks- the most brave, valorous, and thrice-worthy  
    So noble a master fall'n! All gone, and not
  STANLEY. No, my good lord, my friends are in the north.
    Would it were day!
  PHRYNIA AND TIMANDRA. Give us some gold, good Timon.
    But I will chastise this high minded strumpet.
  PROTEUS. That's a deep story of a deeper love;
         Mocks married men, for thus sings he:
    be so unsuitable to her disposition, being addicted to a

    Doth play the trumpet to his purposes
    In reckoning up the several devils' names
  TIME. I, that please some, try all, both joy and terror
    Still in this fashion, colour, ornament,
    And consequently, like a traitor coward,
Rome. PHILARIO'S house
    philosopher's two stones to me. If the young dace be a bait for
    Of her contaminated carrion weight
        ARIEL, on returning, sings and helps to attire him
    That he did seek the love of fair Olivia.
    To find you out.
    For briers and thorns at their apparel snatch;
    is in his robes, burning, burning. if thou wert any way given to
    For well you know here comes in embassy
    Of all that hear me, and my near'st of kin
  ORLANDO. Virtue is no horn-maker; and my Rosalind is virtuous.

    But for thee, fellow- fellow, thy words are madness.
    But there's but one in all doth hold his place.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
     suum, mun, hey, no, nonny. Dolphin my boy, my boy, sessa! let

  COSTARD. Nay, it makes nothing, sir.
    What warlike noise is this?
  Nurse. Will you speak well of him that kill'd your cousin?
SCENE II.

    To-morrow, in my judgment, is too sudden;
  With wit well blazoned, smiled, or made some moan.
     Should never plant in me.
  ROMAN. Well, let us go together.
  FORD. Sir, I am a gentleman that have spent much; my name
    Just and upright, and for your royal birth  
  MIRANDA. Sir, are not you my father?
  VALENTINE. Why, boy! why, wag! how now!
    That he did pace them first? All things that are

  FLUELLEN. All the water in Wye cannot wash your Majesty's Welsh
  MRS. PAGE. He, he; I can never hit on's name. There is such
  These people saw the chain about his neck.
    O Prince! O husband! O, the blood is spill'd
     Look up a-height. The shrill-gorg'd lark so far
     Far off methinks I hear the beaten drum.
  LUCIO. Then, Pompey, nor now. What news abroad, friar? what news?  
Enter the King, Prince of Wales, and others.

                     Enter THERSITES

    Our town of Ciceter in Gloucestershire;
  PRINCE. See now, whether pure fear and entire cowardice doth not
    But one, poor one, one poor and loving child,
    I think she stirs again. No. What's best to do?
    upon that the Prince should woo Hero for himself, and having
    Which promises royal peril. Trumpeters,
    That I will show you shining at this feast,
  Nor now I had not, but that I am bound
    I was a pack-horse in his great affairs,
    Is in opinion and in honour wrong'd,
     Burst smilingly.
  PAGE. And as poor as Job?
  ARIEL.  [Aside to PROSPERO]  Sir, all this service
    And he my husband best of all affects.
    Rheims; as cunning in Greek, Latin, and other languages, as the
    to put good meat into an unclean dish.
    The best condition'd and unwearied spirit
  HERMIONE. No, by my life,
    Send her a letter of thy noble deeds;

    Did you ever hear such railing?
    Where ill men were, and was the best of all
    My tables! Meet it is I set it down
    We will require her welcome.
  MACDUFF. Confusion now hath made his masterpiece.
    And smilest upon the stroke that murders me.
    Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood,
    The hopeless word of 'never to return'
    Young man, thou couldst not die more honorable.
    To such as may the passive drugs of it
     us. Though the wisdom of nature can reason it thus and thus, yet
  Rom. A right good markman! And she's fair I love.
    Could not out-peer these twain. Pardon me, gods!
  BOTTOM. Where's Peaseblossom?
  PROTEUS. Ill, when you talk of war.
  SPEED. Let me read them.
  Bene. God keep your ladyship still in that mind! So some gentleman
    Conserved of maiden's hearts.
    Lest it should burn above the bounds of reason.
    Or that I do not yet, and ever did,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Before the kings and queens of France.
    And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs.
    For thee, and for my self, no quiet find.
    Perhaps thy childishness will move him more
         Drum and colours. Enter the KING and his poor soldiers,

  HUBERT. And I will.
  WESTMORELAND. Plantagenet, of thee, and these thy sons,
ADRIANA.  [Within]  Your wife, sir knave! Go get you from the door.
    honest Antonio- O that I had a title good enough to keep his name
    What see'st thou there? King Henry's diadem,
    Doth one pluck down another, and together
    Hermione was not so much wrinkled, nothing
    By Cressid's rule. Rather think this not Cressid.
    besieg'd,
  That by misfortunes was my life prolong'd,
  DUKE. Ay, but she'll think that it is spoke in hate.  
                                          Exeunt. Manet Claudio.
  BOTH. In, in, in, in!                                   Exeunt
    Nor would I have him till I do deserve him;
    lock thy heaven from thee.
     He may enguard his dotage with their pow'rs
        Re-enter Attendant, with two Murtherers.
    cruel-hearted cur shed one tear. He is a stone, a very pebble
  BOY. Would I were in an alehouse in London! I wouid give all my
  PUCELLE. Your honours shall perceive how I will work
  My glass shall not persuade me I am old,
SCENE IV.
  LAVINIA. O Tamora, be call'd a gentle queen,
    Against what should ensue.
  LYSANDER. Away, you Ethiope!
    Nor can there be that deity in my nature
    Nip not the gaudy blossoms of your love,
    And in this private plot be we the first
    To men of middle age. Y'are very welcome.
    With Desdemona alone.
  POSTHUMUS. This is true;  
    And then you would have tarried. Hark! there's one up.
    But when her humorous ladyship is by
     way sustain him.
  AARON. Villain, I have done thy mother.

    Lend me an arm-the rest have worn me out
    To you in satisfaction; but if not,  
    for going.
    From any other foul unlawful touch  
    first mouth'd, to be last Swallowed. When he needs what you have
    servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most
    So fill'd and so becoming; in pure white robes,
  BEROWNE. A death's face in a ring.
  QUEEN. Are you the butcher, Suffolk? Where's your knife?
    Send him but hither, and I'll fashion him.
    And I will fit thee with the remedy.
    Her estimation home.
    have more of this tomorrow. Adieu.
    Believe this crack to be in my dread mistress,

                                             [Whispers CHARMIAN]
    I will say nothing. I thank God I have as little patience as
    More than I dare make faults. You few that lov'd me

    Which makes me fear th' enjoying of my love;
  NESTOR. With due observance of thy godlike seat,

    To trip the course of law, and blunt the sword
  BERTRAM. I shall obey his will.
    When neither are alive.
    She loved me for the dangers I had pass'd,


                          SCENE III.
    will keep the house.
  For with long travel I am stiff and weary.
                 Enter Lady Macbeth.
    Wear out thy youth with shapeless idleness.
    laments,

  KATHERINA. No cock of mine: you crow too like a craven.
    That I extend my manners; 'tis my breeding
    Then happy I that love and am beloved
    In earth as quiet as thy father's skull.
  COUNTESS. Now, justice on the doers!
    We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him,
  MARGARET. Why speak'st thou not? What ransom must I
Enter, in arms, LEWIS, SALISBURY, MELUN, PEMBROKE, BIGOT, and soldiers
    I am happily come hither.
    threatens them. I hope I need not to advise you further; but I
    I swear-
    To say as I said then. But come, away!
    Till then, farewell, sir; she must needs go in;

WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  PRINCE. Good lords, make all the speedy haste you may.
    pleasure.
    To make me die with a restorative.             [Kisses him.]
  In thee hath neither sting, knot, nor confine,
    And yet, incaged in so small a verge,
    He, being in the vaward plac'd behind
  Queen. But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
The forest
    Whose title they admit, Arthur's or John's.

    Agrippa further speak.
  LODOVICO. You must forsake this room, and go with us.
    Which should undo more doing. Ay, and thou,
  HASTINGS. No news so bad abroad as this at home:
    The standing of his body.

  GREMIO. Saving your tale, Petruchio, I pray,
    fish for she would not exchange flesh with one that lov'd her.

  RATCLIFF. Make haste; the hour of death is expiate.

    I for an Edward weep, so do not they.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
<Exit
  MOTH. Once to behold with your sun-beamed eyes- with your
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. Wreck'd the same instant of their master's death,
    Besides, it should appear that, if he had

                                                     They fight.
    How ill this taper burns! Ha, who comes here?
    as much in his beard; he has no more directions in the true
    Almost each pang a death.
  SICINIUS. Pray you go to him.

    Think not I flatter, for I swear I do not-  
    Into the staggers and the careless lapse
    The eternal devil to keep his state in Rome

    Though not by war, by surfeit die your king,
  In the distraction of this madding fever!
  TROILUS. Your leave, sweet Cressid!
    spectators to laugh too, though in the mean time some necessary
             Now the wasted brands do glow,
    To cease thy suit and leave me to my grief.
    So much, dear liege, I have already sworn,

  JAMY. By the mess, ere theise eyes of mine take themselves to
    Where is the Duke? 'Tis he should hear me speak.
    [Aside to Brutus.] You know not what you do. Do not consent
    Make us pay down for our offence by weight
    And tell him privily of our intent.
    And ask him what's the reason of these arms.
  Pet. Musicians, O, musicians, 'Heart's ease,' 'Heart's ease'!  
  CELIA. Was't you that did so oft contrive to kill him?
    So big to hold so much; they lack retention.
    This were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly.
  IRAS. Go to him, madam, speak to him.
    Is doom'd a prisoner by proud Bolingbroke.

    Now, by my faith, lords, 'twas a glorious day:

    Whiles rank corruption, mining all within,
  TAMORA. Hadst thou in person ne'er offended me,
    Earth gapes, hell burns, fiends roar, saints pray,
    bachelor of threescore again? Go to, i' faith! An thou wilt needs  
  JULIA. A true-devoted pilgrim is not weary
  SOOTHSAYER. I see it in my motion, have it not in my tongue; but
ACT 1. SCENE I.
  1. Car. What, ostler! come away and be hang'd! come away!
    very nobly held, can serve the world for no honest use; therefore
    Like all mankind, show me an iron heart?
  KING RICHARD. Rage must be withstood:
    And you yourself shall steer the happy helm.

    That she is busy and she cannot come.

  CAIUS. Go home, John Rugby; I come anon.            Exit RUGBY
  It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
    Make an extent upon his house and lands.  
  PATROCLUS. Good words, Thersites.
    But go at once.
  GUIDERIUS. The same dead thing alive.
    For he hath heard of our confederacy,
    Only for propagation of a dow'r
    The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
    This, in our foresaid holy father's name,
    Sit patiently and inly ruminate
    The kings your ancestors, together with
    We must needs dine together. Sir, your jewel
    Defy the matter. How cheer'st thou, Jessica?
    Nor I, nor any man that but man is,
  TITUS.  [Aside]  I knew them all, though they suppos'd me mad,
    So surfeit-swell'd, so old, and so profane;  
    By love's own sweet constraint, and will for ever
    Which shows me mine chang'd too; for I must be
    Awake, awake!

  Leon. Marry, thou dost wrong me, thou dissembler, thou!
  MENENIUS. The matter?
    That makes her blood look out. Good sooth, she is
  COSTARD. It may be so; but if he say it is so, he is, in telling
    And both return back to their chairs again.

    Being criminal in double violation
    Through all the signories it was the first,
    But being awak'd, I do despise my dream.
  BEROWNE. First, from the park let us conduct them thither;
  AEMILIUS. Your bidding shall I do effectually.            Exit
                      Enter Friar Laurence.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
  BEROWNE. This is not so well as I look'd for, but the best that
  REIGNIER. My lord, where are you? What devise you on?
  QUEEN. And I could sing, would weeping do me good,
  OTHELLO. Honest? Ay, honest.
    I will not struggle, I will stand stone-still.
    Nor we disturb'd with prodigies on earth.

the DAUPHIN, with others
  TITUS. 'But!' How if that fly had a father and mother?
    As brittle as the glory is the face;
  LIGARIUS. By all the gods that Romans bow before,
  AJAX. No, yonder 'tis;
    Pleasant and helpful to him!
  Not by our feeling, but by others' seeing.
    From thee, my boy, and had the maidenhood
  LEONTES. Prithee no more; cease. Thou know'st
              Swifter than the moon's sphere;
    Were not the proof so nigh. Please you, great sir,
     Denied me to come in) return, and force
and his CHILD in the arms of an attendant
    Have you so slander any moment leisure
  Poins. Francis!
    To give me now a little benefit
    Never, till Caesar's three and thirty wounds
    And well such losers may have leave to speak.
  Jul. Speak'st thou this from thy heart?
    There's for thyself, and that's for Tamora.
  But when I sleep, in dreams they look on thee,
    Though bearing misery, I desire my life
    That what he speaks is all in debt; he owes
    If thou so yield him, there is gold, and here
    Pleases me best.
    Till you return at night. Goes Fleance with you?
    For the offence he dies. This is our doom.
    Some way to leave him.                                  Exit
    And so riveted with faith unto your flesh.
    To Richmond, in the parts where he abides.    [Stands apart]

    When black-fac'd Clifford shook his sword at him;
  CASSIUS. What enterprise, Popilius?
    A pair of cursed hell-hounds and their dam.
    Some thousands of these logs, and pile them up,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Master, shall I fetch your stuff from shipboard?
    That we the horrider may seem to those
    No longer staying but to give the Mother  
  Mer. Help me into some house, Benvolio,
    cheese, an Irishman with my aqua-vitae bottle, or a thief to
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  Ambassador. The sight is dismal;
    Bardolph; lead the men away.  [Exeunt all but FALSTAFF]  As I
    Sufficeth I am come to keep my word,
    Peace shall go sleep with Turks and infidels,
                  Enter OLIVIA and MARIA
SCENE VII.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    So let them have their answers every one.
    Perhaps is but prolong'd. Have patience and endure.
  PRIAM. Ay, but thou shalt not go.

    Strike the proud cedars 'gainst the fiery sun,

  GLOUCESTER. My lord, the Mayor of London comes to greet
  LAFEU. Are you companion to the Count Rousillon?
  DUNCAN. O valiant cousin! Worthy gentleman!
  Pedro. But when shall we set the savage bull's horns on the
  BUCKINGHAM. I am thus bold to put your Grace in mind
    That westward rooteth from the city's side,  
    To bless this twain, that they may prosperous be,
    Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
    Comes sneaking, and so sucks her princely eggs,
    Forget the shames that you have stain'd me with,
    Horses did neigh and dying men did groan,
    There wanteth but a mean to fill your song.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Not a man of those but he hath the
    For, boy, however we do praise ourselves,
  SILVIUS. Though to have her and death were both one thing.
  And make the earth devour her own sweet brood,
  DUCHESS. I will be mild and gentle in my words.
    Beyond all man's endeavours. My endeavours,
    The scatt'red foe that hopes to rise again;
    Cannot conclude but by the yea and no
    In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
    serving-men, younger sons to Younger brothers, revolted tapsters,
  Leon. No, not so, villain! thou beliest thyself.
    Than faults may shake our frames, let me be bold.
    I found not Cassio's kisses on her lips.
  ARVIRAGUS. If you'll go fetch him,
  BERTRAM.  [Aside to PAROLLES]  Is she gone to the King?
                      Ut, re, sol, la, mi, fa.
    Save bidding farewell to so sweet a guest
    Are sometimes, like our judgments, blind. Good faith,
    These may be counterfeits; let's think't unsafe

  ISABELLA. Can this be so? Did Angelo so leave her?
  PANDULPH. Hail, noble prince of France!
    Painting my age with beauty of thy days.
  Of my defeatures. My decayed fair
    Whom I affect; but she is nice, and coy,
    If, one by one, you wedded all the world,
     Strike in their numb'd and mortified bare arms
    And borne her cleanly by the keeper's nose?
    Will be my knell. Go, play, boy, play. There have been,
  CLOTEN. When a gentleman is dispos'd to swear, it is not for any
  YORK. Well, bear you well in this new spring of time,
    Of pretty, fond, adoptious christendoms
  OTHELLO.                      O devil, devil!
    And if it sort not well, you may conceal her,
    Had tongue at will and yet was never loud,

  TITUS. Then here is a supplication for you. And when you come to
    Thersites?
    Live in thy shame, but die not shame with thee!
    A mess of Russians left us but of late.
  DESDEMONA. I have none. Do not talk to me, Emilia;

  Rom. There is no world without Verona walls,
                                    not knowing which way to go.
  SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'I will waylay thee going home; where if it be
  BUCKINGHAM. Yet had we not determin'd he should die
  BOTTOM. Where are these lads? Where are these hearts?
  Doct. Be by, good madam, when we do awake him.
               Enter EDWARD and RICHARD PLANTAGENET
  Lady. It must of force.                                Exeunt.
ACT III SCENE 1.
  Jul. I gave thee mine before thou didst request it;  
    reward, thy conscience flies out.
    Come hither from the furrow, and be merry;
    Dost thou desire her foully for those things
A lane by the wall of Capulet's orchard.
  KING JOHN. Why, what a madcap hath heaven lent us here!
    If not, 'tis true this parting was well made.
  I tell the day to please him thou art bright,
  SILIUS. Noble Ventidius,
    Are not with me esteem'd above thy life;
    Wherein I sigh not, Julia, for thy sake,
    And of an earthly cold! Mark her eyes.
    To this supposed, or else to let him suffer-
  QUEEN. Away! Though parting be a fretful corrosive,
SCENE 2.
    Most rude melancholy, valour gives thee place.
    To please the palate of my appetite,
    learning, is indeed deceased; or, as you would say in plain
    mightst have hit upon it here. The commonwealth of Athens is
    he do nothing but reprove.
    The wise man's folly is anatomiz'd
    That twofold balls and treble sceptres carry.
  A drop of water in the breaking gulf,
    Fie, fie, thou shamest thy shape, thy love, thy wit,
    March by us, that we may peruse the men
  MARCIUS. He that will give good words to thee will flatter

    And in her train there is a gentle lady;

    Of greater time than I shall show to be.
    Your wife Octavia, with her modest eyes
  Prince. O monstrous! but one halfpennyworth of bread to this
    To cast into my teeth. O, I could weep
    And burst of speaking, were as his. I am absolute
    unkindest tied that ever any man tied.
    Enforce attention like deep harmony.
    And then a mind put in't, either our brags
  CORIOLANUS. I beseech you, peace!
  PROTEUS. I'll die on him that says so but yourself.
     A father, and a gracious aged man,
  Leon. Sweet Prince, why speak not you?
    And I proclaim'd a coward through the world.
  BOTH. What, what, what? Let's partake.
    Ravish a maid, or plot the way to do it;
  Beat. Against my will I am sent to bid You come in to dinner.
  ROSALINE. Then cannot we be bought; and so adieu-
    With worms that are thy chambermaids. O, here
  AARON. Indeed, I was their tutor to instruct them.
    By putting on the cunning of a carper.

                                                     Exit ALEXAS
               Enter CARDINAL BEAUFORT, attended
                                                       Exit MOTH
    But there's no goodness in thy face. If Antony

    a poor drunkard!
    I'll answer to my lust. And know you, lord,
    Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
    you affect a sorrow than to have-
  Besides this present instance of his rage,
  Gon. [aside] One way I like this well;
    That we must stand and play the murderer in?
Flourish. Enter CHORUS
  KING. It may well be
    devil's name? Faith, here's an equivocator that could swear in
    refuse to accept him.  
    And plead his love-suit to her gentle heart?
    His words were these: that Richard Duke of York  
  SECOND LORD. My noble lord-
Enter, on one side, AUSTRIA and forces; on the other, KING PHILIP OF FRANCE,
  CLEOPATRA. Well said.

    Be angry and dispatch. O couldst thou speak,

  OLIVIA. Sir, I bade them take away you.
     That good effects may spring from words of love.
    So get the start of the majestic world
    To bid the father wipe his eyes withal,
    Found his deserts; how innocent I was
    the season too, it shall appear.  [Exeunt SERVANTS with
  TAMORA. Titus, I am come to talk with thee.
    pantler; 'a would ha' chipp'd bread well.
  IMOGEN. There cannot be a pinch in death

    Unto the lodging where I first did swoon?
    The King's eyes, that so long have slept upon

  SUFFOLK. Reignier of France, I give thee kingly thanks,

    You woo'd me the false way.
    A jest's prosperity lies in the ear
     (If you dare venture in your own behalf)
  QUEEN MARGARET. And less'ned be that small, God, I
    That, were I ta'en here, it would scarce be answer'd.
  ARIEL. Silver! there it goes, Silver!
    Why do you show me this? A fourth! Start, eyes!

    When you and he came back from Ravenspurgh-
  COMINIUS. Who shall ask it?
  CHAMBERLAIN. Death! my lord,
    His thread of life had not so soon decay'd.
    Being Leo-natus, doth import so much.
  ANTIGONUS,    "   "     "
    valour. Challenge me the Count's youth to fight with him; hurt
    Unapt to toll and trouble in the world,  
  Ham. My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in
    Hath followed certain men unto this house.
  MALCOLM. We have met with foes
    services. Besides, there is no king, be his cause never so
   The flat unraised spirits that hath dar'd
SCENE III.
  BRABANTIO.            A maiden never bold,
    And stand unshaken yours.
  PUCELLE. Besides, all French and France exclaims on thee,
    husbands, if a maid could come by them.
    Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
  IAGO. Good name in man and woman, dear my lord,
     choice of either's moiety.
     More hideous when thou show'st thee in a child

    Environed with all these hideous fears,  
  BATES. Ay, or more than we should seek after; for we know enough if
    merry. Yea, but so I am apt to do myself wrong. I am not so
  AGUECHEEK. The Count's gentleman, one Cesario. We took him for a
  WILLIAMS. All offences, my lord, come from the heart; never came
    I go, and it is done; the bell invites me.
Enter Romeo alone.
     The wren goes to't, and the small gilded fly
    Her welcome friendly.
The Garter Inn
  WARWICK. Indeed, I think the young king loves you not.
  DESDEMONA. Nobody; I myself. Farewell;
  MESSENGER. So like you, sir, ambassadors from Rome;
  CASSIUS. Let it be who it is, for Romans now
  DEMETRIUS. For this care of Tamora,
    their money. These debts may well be call'd desperate ones, for a
    Come, let us four to dinner. I dare say
  LEONTES. Why, that's some comfort.
    We shall your tawny ground with your red blood
    bee stings; but I say 'tis the bee's wax; for I did but seal once

  Laer. Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric.
    business is but to the court.
    As by your Grace shall be propounded him
    To what tune pleas'd his ear; that now he was
  OTHELLO. Nay, if you strive-
  GLOUCESTER. Far truer spoke than meant: I lose indeed.
  Speaking of worth, what worth in you doth grow.  
  COMMONS. [Within] An answer from the King, or we will all break in!
    Sola, sola!                                     Exit COSTARD
     Or swell the curled waters 'bove the main,
  KING HENRY. Why, now thou hast unwish'd five thousand men;
  CELIA. It is young Orlando, that tripp'd up the wrestler's heels
  MACBETH. Then live, Macduff. What need I fear of thee?
    Richard.                                                Exit

  ANTONY. You'll heat my blood; no more.
     If thou shouldst dally half an hour, his life,
 CANTERBURY. Then go we in, to know his embassy;
    May be a precedent and witness good
    There's matter in't indeed if he be angry.
  MENENIUS. Note me this, good friend:
    To whom they go to. What will you read to her?
    Come hither, sirrah.
  CARDINAL. Did he not, contrary to form of law,
    The opposite of itself. She's good, being gone;
    To rouse a lion than to start a hare!
    be henceforth a burying place to all that do dwell in this house,
  MESSENGER. At your noble pleasure.                        Exit

  FIRST VARRO'S SERVANT. 'Tis much deep; and it should seem by th'
    But heavy tears, badges of either's woe.
  SICINIUS. We know your drift. Speak what?
    You must not now deny it is your hand;
    As little as a crow, or less, ere left
    Here lies our way.                                         Exeunt
    And rather comfort his distressed plight
                       servants following  
  now, make haste.
    But herein mean I to enrich my pain,
SCENE II.
  LEPIDUS. I do consent-
  CANIDIUS. Why will my lord do so?
    And on all sides th' authority allow'd;
Capulet's house.
    Was to send him; for whose old love I have-
  And to thy state of darkness hie thee straight.
    Palestine for a touch of his nether lip.
  VENTIDIUS. A noble spirit!
    With all their powerful friends, are fled to him.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
      Thine, by yea and no- which is as much as to say as
      Here stooping to your clemency,
    Know that this gold must coin a stratagem,
    execrations. Then there's Achilles, a rare engineer! If Troy be
with his company
    And in this shape. When you have brought him thither,
  SECOND WITCH. All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, Thane of Cawdor!
    That Talbot is but shadow of himself?  
    No sooner justice had, with valor arm'd,

    You suddenly arose and walk'd about,
  QUEEN MARGARET. Come, son, away; we may not linger thus.
  IMOGEN. So sick I am not, yet I am not well;
  Save where thou art not, though I feel thou art,
    touch'd not any stranger sense. Her matter was, she loved your

    Weighing the youthful season of the year.
  JESSICA. When I was with him, I have heard him swear
    Are men endu'd with worthy qualities;
    The secrets of my heart.
  And fashion your demeanour to my looks,

    Welcome indeed! By Venus' hand I swear
  Oph. There's rosemary, that's for remembrance. Pray you, love,
    Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same comart
    Supported his estate; nay, Timon's money

    And did my brother Bedford toil his wits
  CASSIO. I know not, sweet. I found it in my chamber.
  KING. Take her away.
    Skipper, stand back; 'tis age that nourisheth.
  ORLANDO. Go apart, Adam, and thou shalt hear how he will shake me
  COUNTESS. What hope is there of his Majesty's amendment?

  FRENCH SOLDIER. Que dit-il, monsieur?
  Glou. Too well, too well.


  KING HENRY. Go, take hence that traitor from our sight,
    Hullo! what storm is this?
    He'd lay the future open. You good gods,

    But, like a sickness, did I loathe this food;
    time.                                                Exeunt.
  BRUTUS. I do not, till you practise them on me.
  MACBETH. I'll put it on.
    False to my nature? Rather say I play
    Why did you bring these daggers from the place?
    For my respects are better than they seem,
  KING HENRY. They did, Fluellen.
    Partake to every one. I, an old turtle,

  POET. Yes.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Once more, on pain of death, all men depart.  
    be hotter! A whoreson Achitophel! A rascal-yea-forsooth knave, to
  CASCA. Ay.
    Such attribution should the Douglas have
    'Let them be free, marry them to your heirs-
  PRINCE HUMPHREY. O, good my lord, you have lost a friend indeed;
    I hold you as a thing enskied and sainted,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  A plaintful story from a sist'ring vale,
    And this unwieldy sceptre from my hand,
  Leon. There thou speak'st reason. Nay, I will do so.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. You have misled the youthful Prince.
  MENENIUS. If, by the tribunes' leave, and yours, good people,
  ANTONY. Thy heart is big; get thee apart and weep.
    finger, there is some hope the ladies of Rome, especially his
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  QUEEN MARGARET. Our Earl of Warwick, Edward's greatest friend.
    The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears,  
    Thereon dependent, for your brother's life-
    That Edward shall be fearful of his life;
    To one, his lands withheld; and to the other,
    To throw a perfume on the violet,
    come, come, come, give me your hand.What's done cannot be undone.
    It is not Caesar's natural vice to hate
  LUCETTA. But in what habit will you go along?
LUCIANA, her sister
    Nothing becomes him ill that he would well.
    This tractable obedience is a slave
     The worships of their name.- O most small fault,
    Three times to-day my foot-cloth horse did stumble,
  Glou. Alack, alack, Edmund, I like not this unnatural dealing! When

    Your sword upon a woman?

    Is that the meaning of 'accost'?

    It is the issue of Polixenes.
    My father, and make me put into contempt the suits
  KING HENRY. I pray thee bear my former answer back:
    But undergo this flight: make for Sicilia,
  Revel and feast it at my house to-day,
    All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
  DUCHESS. Dost thou teach pardon pardon to destroy?
    Which shows me many more; and some I see
  GRATIANO. That ever holds: who riseth from a feast
  As this is false he burdens me withal!
  FLORIZEL. Thou dearest Perdita,
    Thisby, is the better- he for a man, God warrant us: She for a
    What raging of the sea, shaking of earth,
  AGUECHEEK. Good Mistress Mary Accost-
  JESSICA. I wish your ladyship all heart's content.
  VALENTINE. Thou common friend, that's without faith or love-
    'good Launcelot Gobbo, use your legs, take the start, run away.'
    justice have I found so severe that he hath forc'd me to tell him
    The country cocks do crow, the clocks do ton,
    him shall at home be encount'red with a shame as ample.
    How comes this trick upon him?  
    her living.
    To wail the dimming of our shining star;

    They are not near my conscience; their defeat
    But let the frame of things disjoint, both the worlds suffer,
  FIRST LORD. Say no more;
  DUMAIN. Ay, and in a brooch of lead.
    That man that hath a tongue, I say, is no man,
  PUCK.      Through the forest have I gone,
  DULL. Come, Jaquenetta, away.             Exit with JAQUENETTA
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    So will you say when you have seen the Sequel.
    Till he disbursed, at Saint Colme's Inch,
  BARDOLPH. Sir John, there's one Master Brook below would

    A gentleman of princely parentage,
    He that meets Hector issues from our choice;

  QUEEN. And as for you, that love to be protected  
    And, gladly quak'd, hear more; where the dull tribunes,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

    hide it.
    Should I not curse them. Poison be their drink!
  MENENIUS. What's the news? What's the news?
  KING JOHN. The legate of the Pope hath been with me,
 Exit
                    Alarum. Enter ENOBARBUS
    Than you much willing to be counted wise
  TITUS. Traitors, away! He rests not in this tomb.
    And often but attended with weak guard
    The people 'twixt Philippi and this ground
    By words or blows here let us win our right.
  MARIA. He's coming, madam; but in very strange manner.
  KING HENRY. Whether it be through force of your report,
  SUFFOLK. Thus Suffolk hath prevail'd; and thus he goes,
    By so much shall I falsify men's hopes;
    Because I would not tax the needy commons,
    Well, I will lock his counsel in my breast;
    A sin-absolver, and my friend profess'd,
  SICINIUS. Why either were you ignorant to see't,
    The Queen your mother rounds apace. We shall
    An understanding simple and unschool'd;
    Away, and for our flight.
  He gains by death that hath such means to die.
  PISANIO. Sir, my life is yours;
              Alexandria. CLEOPATRA'S palace
  ROSALINE. Sans 'sans,' I pray you.
    I was- there is no man can tell what. Methought I was, and
    the third time; I hope good luck lies in odd numbers.
    There are a kind of men so loose of soul,

    Therefore be gone; solicit me no more.
  ULYSSES. Ay, or surly borne.
  Fal. Rob me the exchequer the first thing thou doest, and do it
  FORESTER. Pardon me, madam, for I meant not so.
    Speak with me, pity me, open the door.
          An alarum. Re-enter TALBOT, BURGUNDY, and the rest
  CAESAR. And this way have you well expounded it.
    He was a thing of blood, whose every motion
    Is turn'd to folly, blasting in the bud,
  KING. O paradox! Black is the badge of hell,
    No planet is of mine.  
                                              [Puts on the ring]
    But fly you must; uncurable discomfit
  CHIRON. Rome will despise her for this foul escape.
    marks ready money. Marry, then ginger was not much in request,
    And cannot now accept. To grace him only,  
    To cozen him that would unjustly win.                   Exit
    As the free elements. And then for her
    thou loves me, let the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    And let me say, that never wept before,
    Alack, I love myself. Wherefore? For any good
    Went through the army, cheering up the soldiers.
  TRANIO. Of Pisa, sir; son to Vincentio.
    Take heed (dear heart) of this large privilege,
  PAULINA. So much the more our carver's excellence,
  FALSTAFF. Divide me like a brib'd buck, each a haunch; I
    In Saturninus' health; whom, if she sleep,
    And therefore level not to hit their lives.
    conjure and raise devils, but I'll see some issue of my spiteful
  PISTOL. Then to you, Mistress Dorothy; I will charge you.
    Do love, prize, honour you.
    Joy'd are we that you are.
    not to say it is a sea, for it is now the sky; betwixt the
  FALSTAFF. Fear no colours; go with me to dinner. Come, Lieutenant
    But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
    women are for the most part cattle of this colour; would now like

    Sent by a consul to me, should not sooner
    And tell him where I stay; give the like notice
    Prove holy water on thee! Imogen,
    A lady wall'd about with diamonds!
    Admits no orifex for a point as subtle
              Enter PARIS and HELEN, attended
    Brought my too diligent ear; for several virtues
    And drown themselves in riot. Itches, blains,
    Do stand but in a forced affection,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Where he bestows himself?
  OTHELLO. Certain, men should be what they seem.

    The lips of those that breathe them in the air.
  MARIA. Make that good.
    But look, amazement on thy mother sits.
    He cannot live, I hope, and must not die
  PEMBROKE. But that your royal pleasure must be done,
    There is some grudge between 'em, 'tis not meet
    bear crosses. Fare you well. Commend me to my cousin
SCENE V.
    Then I degraded you from being King,
    A PAGE

    It were a grief so brief to part with thee.
    Thawing cold fear, that mean and gentle all
    I'll yield myself to prison willingly,
  FLUELLEN. That is he. I'll tell you there is good men porn at
    gentleman's saying.

  AENEAS. Who!-nay, then. Come, come, you'll do him wrong ere you are
    Writ in remembrance more than things long past.
    hates you.
    Let us assay our plot; which, if it speed,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. What plume of feathers is he that indited this
  CLEOPATRA. Be it known that we, the greatest, are misthought
    Here, there, and everywhere, enrag'd he slew
Enter Benedick and Margaret [meeting].
  CLOTEN. To thy further fear,
    I will say thus much for him: if a prince
  SEBASTIAN. I will be free from thee. What wouldst thou now?

  While she with harlots feasted in my house.
    And practise rhetoric in your common talk;
  SECOND SERVANT. Madam, he hath not slept to-night; commanded
    they are not so punish'd and cured is that the lunacy is so
    Of charity, what kin are you to me?
    With good advice and little medicine.
  DIANA. Alas, poor lady!
    And if they fall they dash themselves to pieces.
  COSTARD. Then shall Hector be whipt for Jaquenetta that is quick by
    Is gone with her along; and I must after,
    it is yours; if you fall in the adventure, our crows shall fare
    That weigh their pains in sense, and do suppose
    Not sensible of fire remain'd unscorch'd.
    These few days' wonder will be quickly worn.
    In characters as red as Mars his heart
    Speak that which is not.
    Let us to France, like horse-leeches, my boys,

  Hero. And here's another,
    Or thou shouldst find thou hast dishonour'd me.
    Will now deny to dance? She that makes dainty,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    I am denied to sue my livery here,
    To have me out of Egypt, made wars here;
    Either thou art most ignorant by age,
                         Enter Antony.
  BRUTUS. Cassius, be constant.

    To gather from thee. Haply thou mayst inform
    I guess their tenour.
    This is the state of man: to-day he puts forth
  Reg. Our troops set forth to-morrow. Stay with us.
  Pol. Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful.     [Reads.]  

    This is not Romeo, he's some other where.
                                                     They fight.
    Her husband has a marvellous infection to the little page;
    thou varlet; thou art to continue.
  ESCALUS. Your mistress' name?
    Fall on their heads like dew! for they are worthy
  DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM
  Rom. I have night's cloak to hide me from their sight;
  Ursula, waiting gentlewoman attending on Hero.
    Into strong shudders and to heavenly agues,
    And take with you free power to ratify,
    At thy affections, which do hold a wing,
  IAGO. [Aside to him.] How now, Roderigo!
      Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
    If thou but think'st him wrong'd and makest his ear
  Richard Scroop, Archbishop of York.

  Till now did ne'er invite nor never woo.
    Struck me, that thought to stay him, overboard
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I will not stay to-night for all the town;

    Of this most fair occasion, by the which
  JESSICA. I shall be sav'd by my husband; he hath made me a
Salisbury. An open place
    As matching to his youth and vanity,

    Discomfort swells. Mark, King of Scotland, mark.
  DECIUS. Great Caesar-
    And quietness, grown sick of rest, would purge
    This happy night the Frenchmen are secure,
  WOLSEY. My lord!
  MARCUS. What means my niece Lavinia by these signs?
    The never-daunted Percy to the earth,
    To send me packing with an host of men.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. While I go to the goldsmith's house, go thou
  PROTEUS. At Saint Gregory's well.
     And give the letters which thou find'st about me
Enter PROVOST and POMPEY
  Hor. Never believe it.
             Enter LA PUCELLE, on the top, thrusting out
  PORTER, and his MAN           PAGE to Gardiner
    If I be so disgracious in your eye,
                                        Exeunt LUCIUS and MARCUS
  MERCHANT. No, my good lord; he speaks the common tongue,
    Not to see ladies, study, fast, not sleep!

    This was the most unkindest cut of all;
    not Anne Page; by gar, I am cozened.
    Wake when some vile thing is near.                      Exit
    The Lady Anne pass from her coronation?
                                     Exit TITANIA with her train
    [Dies]
  SECOND LORD. 'A will betray us all unto ourselves-
    But if without him we be thought too feeble,

    The precedent was full as long a-doing;
    I can o'ersway him, for he loves to hear
                                    [Falls fainting on the body]
    Come, let us go, and make thy father blind,
    Is dangerous treason; he is come to open
    have seen, some shall see.  

  COUNTESS. Sir, I am a poor friend of yours, that loves you.
    at him. Let time shape, and there an end.               Exit

    That for a trifle that was bought with blood!
    Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing
    Grace?
  Thou best of dearest, and mine only care,
    That she shall have, besides an argosy
    the sadness is without limit.
    That wildly grows in them, but yields a crop
    My sober house. By Jacob's staff, I swear
  HELENA. When he was retrograde, I think, rather.
  BEROWNE. One drunkard loves another of the name.
  CLOWN. Yes, forsooth, an your mistriship be Emperial.
       marshalship, a coronet on his head. Collars of Esses.
  FALSTAFF. The devil take one party and his dam the other!
  YORK. Insulting Charles! Hast thou by secret means
    Such water colours to impaint his cause,
    Must bide the touch; for, sir, at Shrewsbury,
  MENENIUS. In what enormity is Marcius poor in that you two have not
  RICHARD. I cannot weep, for all my body's moisture
  SHERIFF. It is, my lord.
    I shall not know him. Therefore never, never
  ARMADO. I will hereupon confess I am in love. And as it is base for
    Where we do reign we will alone uphold,

  DEMETRIUS. O, why rebuke you him that loves you so?
    Anchors on Isabel. Heaven in my mouth,
    My people did expect my hence departure

    You have heard of such a spirit, and well you know
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. Stokesly and Gardiner: the one of Winchester,
    And both preposterous; therefore, not 'good lord.'
    Revenge the heavens for old Andronicus!                 Exit
    Shall from your neck unloose his amorous fold,  
    Even here between the chaste unsmirched brows
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  SATURNINUS. If it be prov'd! You see it is apparent.
    Are we come hither; since that thy sight, which should
    with you.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Yes, indeed, was I.
  TITUS. My lord, here is my bill.
    Nothing so full of heart. But peace, Aeneas,
    I'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye,
    And you must live drawn by your own sweet skill.
  MRS. FORD. There they always use to discharge their
    And threats the throat of that his officer
    The Queen, and Princess.                              Exeunt  
    Ask him upon his oath if he does think
    To throw away the dearest thing he owed
    She was the first fruit of my bach'lorship.
    That down fell priest and book, and book and priest.
    Turn on the bloody hounds with heads of steel
  SHYLOCK. An oath, an oath! I have an oath in heaven.
    What, hath thy fiery heart so parch'd thine entrails
    That cannot see this palpable device?
    One that is well-nigh worn to pieces with age to show
    Th' immediate heir of England! Was this easy?
  LEWIS. The sun of heaven, methought, was loath to set,
    with nobility, and tranquillity, burgomasters and great oneyers,
    You take it off again?
    How much I was a braggart. When I told you
  SECOND LORD. We cannot afford you so.

    And sear up my embracements from a next
    "Brutus" will start a spirit as soon as "Caesar."
    Drones suck not eagles' blood but rob beehives.
and others in attendance
  Leon. To be married to her. Friar, you come to marry her.

    Hath he set bounds between their love and me?
    My father will grant precious things as trifles.  
    Child I for that at frugal nature's frame?
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Seek Percy and thyself about the field;
    As Cleopatra this. But, sir, forgive me;  
    I am a man again. Pray you sit still.  
  Tyb. What wouldst thou have with me?
  King. It falls right.
    From what it purpos'd; since to wail friends lost
    Your Grace is welcome to a man disgrac'd,
    And gem of all the nation.
  BIONDELLO. I cannot tarry. I knew a wench married in an afternoon
    Your faithful friends o' th' suburbs? We shall have
    And hither have they sent it for her ransom.
    With every joint a wound, and that to-morrow!
                                                  Exit BIONDELLO
     him trot by.
    I'll have an Iris that shall find thee out.

    his table as drawers.

  HORTENSIO. Well, Petruchio, this has put me in heart.
  ACHILLES. Look, Hector, how the sun begins to set;
    water-spaniel- which is much in a bare Christian. Here is the  
  PORTIA. I will have nothing else but only this;  
    The chronicles of my doing, let me say

  TIMON. Prithee no more.
         Enter HOLOFERNES, for JUDAS; and MOTH, for HERCULES
  Tyb. 'Tis he, that villain Romeo.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Else your memory is bad, going o'er it
    Which you have not redeem'd; indeed, paid down
  YORK. Then, as I said, the Duke, great Bolingbroke,
  MURTHERER. Most royal sir,
  IMOGEN. When he was here
LUCIANA. Till he come home again, I would forbear.
    And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
    Approach, my Ariel. Come.

    And thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love;
  BOTTOM. Let me play the lion too. I will roar that I will do any
    Cousin, all honour to thee!
    The tempter or the tempted, who sins most?
Enter CADE and the rest
  Fal. So I do, against my will.
  SPEED. But tell me true, will't be a match?
       driving Englishmen before her. Then enter TALBOT
  MENAS. [Aside to POMPEY] Forsake thy seat, I do beseech thee,
    But quick, and in mine arms. Come, take your flow'rs.
    The noble Earl of Suffolk also lies.
    money; next, give me your hand; and last, as I am a gentleman,
    Edward's unhappy sons do bid thee flourish.
    If that the injuries be justly weigh'd
    The doom of Egypt.
                                               [They walk away.]  
  FREDERICK. No more, no more.

  DULL. You two are book-men: can you tell me by your wit
  HERMIA. Why, get you gone! Who is't that hinders you?
    That here come sacrifices for the field.
    Fall in the fresh lap of the crimson rose;

                          Enter TUBAL
    Servile to all the skyey influences,
    And, as you answer, I do know the scope
     Blows in your face! I fear your disposition.
  Ham. Come for the third, Laertes! You but dally.
  LAUNCE. Why, then will I tell thee- that thy master stays for thee
  Nurse. Madam, your mother craves a word with you.
    And nothing can we can our own but death
    I need not add more fuel to your fire,
  Jul. No, no. But all this did I know before.
    That it was yours. Now for conspiracy:
killed with your hard opinions; for Oldcastle died a martyr and this
    And yet so fast asleep.
    Yet nature is made better by no mean
  GREMIO. Nay, I dare not swear it.
    Whereby we stand opposed by such means
    And made a push at chance and sufferance.
  Fal. God-a-mercy! so should I be sure to be heart-burn'd.
  HORTENSIO. Why, no; for she hath broke the lute to me.
  Verg. Yes, I thank God I am as honest as any man living that is an
                           Re-enter Cassio.
ANGELO. O peflur'd woman! They are both forsworn.
  AGAMEMNON. What wouldst thou of us, Troyan? Make demand.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
                        Enter ORLANDO
    That she may boast she hath beheld the man
    Almost the copy of my child that's dead,
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. None but the King?
    And here the smug and sliver Trent shall run
    Hath been as dear as Helen-I mean, of ours.
    Come, night; come, Romeo; come, thou day in night;  
                   Enter TIMON out of his cave
     You heavens, give me that patience, patience I need!

SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>

    More than the locking up the spirits a time,
  GRATIANO. What is the matter?
    That have abundance and enjoy it not.
    Strike those that make them; and their story is
    Comes to the privy coffer of the state;
    I know you have a gentle, noble temper,
  BIGOT. Away toward Bury, to the Dauphin there!
    And, now it is half-conquer'd, must I back
  ANNE. I pray you, sir, walk in.
    Where rather I'll expect victorious life
    For doughty-handed are you, and have fought
  And yet it may be said I loved her dearly,
  DUMAIN,      "      "      "   "   "
    For sure my thoughts do hourly prophesy

    With candle-wasters--bring him yet to me,
    Unless his noble mother and his wife,
    Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
    Howling attends it! How hast thou the heart,
                 Enter Gloucester, led by an Old Man.
  DUCHESS. Ah, that deceit should steal such gentle shape,
    Too far in years to be a pupil now.
    That I may know the let why gentle Peace
    Ah, wretched man! Would I had died a maid,
    As fest'red members rot but by degree
  CAIUS. Me tank you for dat.
    I pray thee, let me feel thy cloak upon me.
    him.
    Than I, that have not well the gift of tongue,
    and the pipe. I have known when he would have walk'd ten mile
  PUCELLE. Once I encount'red him, and thus I said:
    Unless some fit or frenzy do possess her;
  Queen. Alas, he's mad!
    But where's the body that I should embrace?
  HELENA. I have, sir, as I was commanded from you,
    But chiefly for thy face and thy behaviour,
    sadness.
    Rankly abus'd. But know, thou noble youth,
    chroniclers of that age found it was- Hero of Sestos. But these
    For suddenly a grievous sickness took him
    So come my soul to bliss, as I speak true;
    Contriv'd by art and baleful sorcery.
  PATIENCE. Heaven comfort her!
    That I did kill them.
    We'll sift this matter further.
    I'll lend you all my life to do you service.  
SCENE II.
  FLUELLEN. Why, I pray you, is not 'pig' great? The pig, or great,
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Was never widow had so dear a loss.
    From his ambitious finger. What had he
  
    I may not suffer you to visit them.
              With these mortals on the ground.           Exeunt
    Sir John. Unless you go out disguis'd.

     Burn itself out. If Edgar live, O, bless him!
    Cheerly to sea; the signs of war advance;
    Fulfill your pleasure. Live a thousand years,
    Thus much of this will make black white, foul fair,
    And means to give you battle presently.
  COUNTESS. I think, sir, you can eat none of this homely meat.
     Commend a dear thing to you. There is division
    God keep you from them and from such false friends!
    But in my bosom shall she never come
    Having bound up the threat'ning twigs of birch,
The DUKE OF YORK's palace
    Here's Decius Brutus, he shall tell them so.
    Of Edmund Mortimer, who married Philippe,
    The fashion- less without and more within.              Exit
  LUCIUS. My lord, you are unjust, and more than so:
    Or if that thou couldst see me without eyes,
  SECOND CONSPIRATOR. And patient fools,
  SALISBURY. Pride went before, ambition follows him.
    What, man! more water glideth by the mill
  BRABANTIO. Thou are a villain.
    Their bodies to the lust of English youth
    Of plain old form is much disfigured;
    The fall'n-off Britons, that we do incite

  OLIVER. Charles, I thank thee for thy love to me, which thou shalt
  AGUECHEEK. I hope, sir, you are; and I am yours.
  QUICKLY. Marry, this is the short and the long of it: you
    hundred and fifty tattered Prodigals lately come from
    Drop on you both! A south-west blow on ye
    For the repealing of my banish'd brother?
  Rom. Your plantain leaf is excellent for that.
  ACHILLES. Why, but he is not in this tune, is he?
    And throw them in the entrails of the wolf?
  WARWICK. Be patient, Princes; you do know these fits
    Which brought us hither.
  STEPHANO. Marry will I; kneel and repeat it; I will stand,
    Sticks deeper, grows with more pernicious root  
    To my proceeding!-if, with dear heart's love,
    Affected eminence, wealth, sovereignty;  
  LEONTES. O Paulina,

  CLOTEN. Thou art a robber,
    The sudden hand of death close up mine eye!
    There's sap in't yet. The next time I do fight

  On your broad main doth wilfully appear.
  And makes her absence valiant, not her might.
  KING HENRY. We are in God's hand, brother, not in theirs.
    And therefore little shall I grace my cause
    Willing you to demand your hostages,
  HASTINGS.  [Within]  What is't o'clock?
Enter Sir John the Bastard and Conrade, his companion.
  CLAUDIO. Sweet sister, let me live.
  CLARENCE. I am here, brother, full of heaviness.
    Against his brother and his lawful King?
  KING HENRY. I am content. Richard Plantagenet,
  PUCK. Thou coward, art thou bragging to the stars,
  Of their fair subject, blessing every book.  
SCENE VI.
    Than the soft myrtle. But man, proud man,
    No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
    done!
    Where are my slippers? Shall I have some water?
    When it hath blown his ranks into the air
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  PAINTER. He and myself
    That I may save my speech. Do but go after,
    Dropping upon thy head.
  TREBONIUS,           "          "     "
    My charms I'll break, their senses I'll restore,
  BANQUO. Were such things here as we do speak about?
    And, in conclusion, she shall watch all night;
    A pantler- not so eminent!
    parents of the foresaid child or pupil, undertake your ben  

  OTHELLO. Crying, "O dear Cassio!" as it were; his gesture imports
  His rider loved not speed being made from thee:
  LUCIUS. Consider, sir, the chance of war. The day
                            Re-enter PUCK
    And his great person perish.
    A thousand pound a year, annual support,
    Exceed account. But the full sum of me
    But even his mother shall uncharge the practice  
  BRUTUS. Peace, peace! You durst not so have tempted him.
  CRESSIDA. Go hang yourself, you naughty mocking uncle.
    your pate.
    That they may hold excus'd our lawless lives;
    Hath conjur'd to attend! I know the merchant.
  With means more blessed than my barren rhyme?
    He's all my exercise, my mirth, my matter;
  CLOWN. Lay it by too. Another.
    Whereon this hydra son of war is born;
  QUEEN. What say'st thou? Did the Duke of York say he was rightful
     With th' ancient of war on our proceeding.
    and we had the trick to see't. Did these bones cost no more the
    Thyself upon thy virtues, they on thee.
  TRANIO. Ay, mistress; and Petruchio is the master,
    Go to my chamber, put on clothes of mine.
    My chamber-councils, wherein, priest-like, thou
    O Antony! O Antony!                                   [Dies]
    Those precious motives, those strong knots of love,
  AUFIDIUS. I have not deserv'd it.
  HUME. Ay, what else? Fear you not her courage.
    Th' elected deer before thee?
    Romano, who, had he himself eternity and could put breath into
  TOUCHSTONE. And I mine. I remember, when I was in love, I broke my
    So that his power, like to a fangless lion,
  QUICKLY. I'll be sworn;
  FORD. Trust me, a good knot; I have good cheer at home,
    Is likely to beget more conquerors,  
    Give him a little earth for charity!'
    Your Highness came to England, so will I
  WARWICK. Why then, I would not fly. Ah, Montague,  
    If thou hadst said him nay, it had been sin.
  SLY. These fifteen years! by my fay, a goodly nap.
    scarce cater-cousins-  
  DAUPHIN. Not so, I do beseech your Majesty.
    here comes Doctor Caius.
    Lips, let sour words go by and language end:
    Ha! I have said. Be gone.  
                           Enter DERBY
  DUKE SENIOR. That would I, had I kingdoms to give with her.
     Whose influence, like the wreath of radiant fire
    Scambling, outfacing, fashion-monging boys,
    And our dull workings. O, who shall believe
    sister, you shall be the priest, and marry us. Give me your hand,
  DUCHESS. O, let me speak!
    Ambitious York did level at thy crown,
    being ever from their cradles bred together, that she would have

    How couldst thou in a mile confound an hour,
  OTHELLO. Ha!
  LAFEU. A good traveller is something at the latter end of a dinner;
  WARWICK. Both which we doubt not but your Majesty
  JULIA. The more thou dam'st it up, the more it burns.
    I am to break with thee of some affairs
    And by the buried hand of warlike Gaunt,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    on.
  BRUTUS. What's the matter?
    To youth and liberty.
Caesar's house. Thunder and lightning.
    Wish we all joy and honour.
    And by that music let us all embrace;
    If you might please to stretch it.
    Shall share the good of our returned fortune,

    And in thy sons, fair slips of such a stock.
    Is held from falling with so weak a wind

  QUINTUS. Aaron is gone, and my compassionate heart
    And now, to add more measure to your woes,
    Tire on the flesh of me and of my son!
    With the like bold, just, and impartial spirit
    We'll none of him, but let him, like an engine
    I' th' way of flattery further.
  TIMON. A mere satiety of commendations;
  LONGAVILLE. I beseech you a word: what is she in the white?
    the Retort Courteous; the second, the Quip Modest; the third, the
  BRUTUS. Ho, Lucilius! Hark, a word with you.
    Love's stories, written in Love's richest book.
    In these confusions. Heaven and yourself
    And mine a sad one.
    Be not afraid. I met her Deity


    Of all one pain, save for a night of groans
    And soon I'll rid you from the fear of them.
    Ay, and forswore himself-which Jesu pardon!-
    his honour.- My honour'd lord!
    The only soil of his fair virtue's gloss,
  Lear. You do me wrong to take me out o' th' grave.
    For ancient quarrels and quite lost their hearts.
    And must needs say a noble one; which makes me
    The riches of it. Do his bidding; strike.
  KING HENRY. Ah, know you not the city favours them,  
                 -THE END-
  KING EDWARD. Now tell me, madam, do you love your children?
    Repair thy wit, good youth, or it will fall
    This before all the world do I prefer;
    Enrings the barky fingers of the elm.
    And all the better is it for the maid.

    We were enforc'd for safety sake to fly
    Yea, get the better of them. What's to do?
    I pull in resolution and begin
  PLANTAGENET. Good Master Vernon, I am bound to you  
    And let us not be dainty of leave-taking,
  YORK. How now! Is Somerset at liberty?
    The shallowest thickskin of that barren sort,
  Cor. O, look upon me, sir,
    piece of my sword.
    With written pamphlets studiously devis'd?
    But note me, signior.
     A woman's shape doth shield thee.
     When nature, being oppress'd, commands the mind
    Puffing at all, winnows the light away;
and attendants
    there has been knights, and lords, and gentlemen, with
    suffer me: she drops booties in my mouth. I am courted now with a
ACT IV. SCENE 1
ACT_3|SC_3
  APEMANTUS. So I shall mend mine own by th' lack of thine.
    But for the handkerchief-
    Another fall of man. Their faults are open.
  SOLANIO. Let good Antonio look he keep his day,
      Gentlemen.

  DUKE. So then, it seems, your most offenceful act
    The King is present; if it be known to him
  ISABELLA. In such a one as, you consenting to't,
    But, touch'd with human gentleness and love,

  FALSTAFF.  [Aside to MRS. PAGE]  I love thee and none but  
  Prince. No; thou shalt.
    Though he have serv'd a Roman. Save him, sir,
  HARCOURT. From enemies heaven keep your Majesty;
    Put my sick cause into his hands that hates me?
    That fed him with his prophecies?
     That thou mayst shake the superflux to them
    Of high resolved men, bent to the spoil,
    Deserves your hate; and your affections are
    With maids to seem the lapwing, and to jest,  
    His humorous predominance; yea, watch
    Of his affection to me.
    To carve out dials quaintly, point by point,
  MARULLUS. May we do so?
    C's, her U's, and her T's; and thus makes she her great P's. It
  None else to me, nor I to none alive,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

    reason. Come on, Trinculo, let us sing.              [Sings]
                             Exeunt two GENTLEMEN With LADY ANNE
  AGUECHEEK. Before me, she's a good wench.
    Greater than this.

    sheep-biter come by some notable shame?
  SIR TOBY. My lady's a Cataian, we are politicians, Malvolio's a
  MENELAUS. Name her not now, sir; she's a deadly theme.
    With promise of his sister, and what else,
    Lieutenant to the warlike Moor, Othello,
    I tell you, sir, she bears me fair in hand.
    Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
BALTHAZAR. Have patience, sir; O, let it not be so!
    I cannot do it; yet I know no cause
    And lawful meaning in a lawful act;
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    'Tis ten to one it maim'd you two outright.
    to be honest plain men, what you have to the King. Being
    Fair is foul, and foul is fair.

  GLOUCESTER. What, and wouldst climb a tree?
  CORIOLANUS. Measureless liar, thou hast made my heart
    That I can match her.
  ROSALINE. O vain petitioner! beg a greater matter;
    Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
    goes;
    last that, I fear me, will never out of my bones. I
    For Warwick is a subtle orator,
    I'll end my exhortation after dinner.
    More pious debts to heaven than in all  
    O short-liv'd pride! Not fair? Alack for woe!  
  Lear. O me, my heart, my rising heart! But down!
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
AEGEON. I am sure thou dost.
    That you shall think the devil is come from hell.
    My grained ash an hundred times hath broke
  FRENCH KING. Nor this I have not, brother, so denied  
    Even in the force and road of casualty.
  GLOUCESTER. Think'st thou I am an executioner?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE

  To leave for nothing all thy sum of good:
  M. AEMILIUS LEPIDUS,     "
  I thought to have ta'en you at the Porpentine;
    Cave here, hunt here, are outlaws, and in time
    friends.
    Pluck'd from my arms perforce, and given away
    his pia mater is not worth the ninth part of a sparrow. This
  Alb. Wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile;
    And where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weigh'd,
  FLUELLEN. Captain Macmorris, I think, look you, under your  
    Give me a taper! Call up all my people!

    Yet now they fright me. There is one within,
    well, here's my comfort.                            [Drinks]
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    it!
    When I had at my pleasure taunted her,
    A peevish self-will'd harlotry it is.  
    As you would beg were you in my distress.
    And barbarism itself have pitied him.  
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  KING. A giant traitor!
    To cure him of this evil- But, hark! What noise?
  FALSTAFF. She lives, Master Shallow.
    Go with me to my tent, where you shall see
  Pedro. By my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady.  
    Sometime in Greece-
  ARMADO. Most sweet Hercules! More authority, dear boy, name more;  
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    [To CATESBY]  Go thou to Friar Penker. Bid them both
  THIRD SERVANT. Do't! He will do't; for look you, sir, he has as
    The Prince draws it out and finds it to he a bottle of sack.
    What power the Duke of York had levied there;
    For I must ever doubt though ne'er so sure,
  COUNTESS. Find you that there?
    Pisanio, thou that stand'st so for Posthumus!
    And stood against them as the hope of Troy
    For this effect defective comes by cause.
  BRUTUS. Stand, ho! Speak the word along.
    By night frequents my house. I am a man
  CYMBELINE. What, art thou mad?
  KING HENRY. We judge no less. Uncle of Exeter,
    Handlest in thy discourse. O, that her hand,
    Or springhalt reign'd among 'em.
                                         [Pointing to the NURSE]
SCENE VIII.
    Many for many virtues excellent,
    But that's no welcome. Understand more clear,
    High-reaching Buckingham grows circumspect.

    said, and, as I say, paying for them very honestly; for, as you

    More than you doubt the change on't; that prefer
    To th' ground, and all the world shall mourn her.
    Stay'd me a prisoner in my chamber when

    Fool, fool! thou whet'st a knife to kill thyself.
    [Aside] though I would not have it grow on my chin.- Is thy lady
    Let his deservings, and my love withal,
    I fear there will a worse come in his place.

  Lear. Wilt break my heart?
    cowards; for I, that never feared any, am vanquished by famine,
    Prodigious birth of love it is to me

    This were to be new made when thou art old,
    He has his health, and ampler strength indeed
    By the exaction of the forfeiture?
    Yet, I think, we are not brought so low
    Their pleasures here are past, so is their pain.
  DICK. And furthermore, we'll have the Lord Say's head for selling
    Makes flexible the knees of knotted oaks,
    canon. Keep it not; you cannot choose but lose by't. Out with't.
  KING RICHARD. Say she shall be a high and mighty queen.
    Thus we set on, Camillo, to th' sea-side.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Did famine follow; whom thou fought'st against,
SCENE III.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  John. I came hither to tell you, and, circumstances short'ned (for
    Where, meeting with an old religious man,
  BARDOLPH. Well, the fuel is gone that maintain'd that fire: that's
    Did I not meet thy friends? And did not they
  SHEPHERD. I would there were no age between ten and three and
    How now, Bardolph!
  WOLSEY. Stay:
    His brother here, and put him to the sword;
    Take that, and mend the plucking off the other.
    matter to alter it. You have an unspeakable comfort of your young
  CRESSIDA. Perchance, my lord, I show more craft than love;
    To beg of Hob and Dick that do appear
  LEONTES. So stands this squire
  ULYSSES. Most sure she was.  
    All I kept were knaves, to serve in meat to villains.

    Than a joint burden laid upon us all.
                                     Exeunt BERTRAM and PAROLLES
    When he doth run his course. Antonio!
    Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
    The extreme dangers, and the drops of blood
  They live unwooed, and unrespected fade,
COURTEZAN. He did; and from my finger snatch'd that ring.
    Under the service of a child as soon
    Imploring pardon.

    Hath virgin'd it e'er since. You gods! I prate,
    I shall procure-a you de good guest, de earl, de knight, de
     How now? Where's the King?  
  HASTINGS. Now, what news?
    And lack of other means, in desperate manner

  Alb. That's but a trifle here.
    And nothing marted with him. If your lass
  ARIEL. Ay, sir.
    Into my private meditations?
  LUCENTIO. I pray thee moralize them.
    As masterly as he. Mere prattle without practice
    Pierc'd to the soul with slander's venom'd spear,  
    Subjected tribute to commanding love,
    By a beloved prince, there doth appear
    Once more to look on him.
    My Lady Grey his wife, Clarence, 'tis she
    The thing he means to kill, more excellently.
    Thou rag of honour, thou detested-
Enter old QUEEN MARGARET
    tongue in my head!  [Looking on his palm]  Well; if any man in
    The like allayment could I give my grief.
    And, as you are a king, speak in your state
  KING HENRY. My Lord of Gloucester, 'tis my special hope
  Prince. Well, come what will, I'll tarry at home.
    in the fire, and need not.
  AGUECHEEK. Excellent good, i' faith!

    forth more islands.
    find out to hide thee from this open and apparent shame?
Britain. CYMBELINE'S palace
  Rom. Wilt thou provoke me? Then have at thee, boy!
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
                       Enter Romeo.
    That caves and womby vaultages of France  
  CRESSIDA. Indeed a tapster's arithmetic may soon bring his
    All will be nought else.
    Is fully out.
    That thinks he hath done well in people's eyes,
  CLARENCE. Not to relent is beastly, savage, devilish.
    To warn false traitors from the like attempts.

    When you perceive his blood inclin'd to mirth;
    Came to the field, and vanquished his foes.
    Infirmity, that decays the wise, doth ever make the better fool.
  Edg. Poor Tom, that eats the swimming frog, the toad, the todpole,
    And what is in't, the never-surfeited sea
    breeding; his employment between his lord and my niece confirms
    A hell-hound that doth hunt us all to death.

    Entreated me to call and know her mind;

  QUINCE. You, Nick Bottom, are set down for Pyramus.  
    Shake he his weapon at us and pass by.
  BOLINGBROKE. Call forth Bagot.
  VIRGILIA.  [To SICINIUS]  You shall stay too. I would I had the
  I am thy prisoner. Wilt thou suffer them
    And do not stand on quillets how to slay him;
ACT_4|SC_2
  BEDFORD. The King himself is rode to view their battle.
Enter GROOMS, strewing rushes
    For my part, if a lie may do thee grace,
    Sir-I may tell it you-I think I have


  APEMANTUS. Here! I will mend thy feast.
    For how can tyrants safely govern home
  LODOVICO. This wretch hath part confess'd his villainy.
  Both find each other, and I lose both twain,
    O, 'tis a fault too too
    The victory fell on us.

  BARDOLPH. Farewell, hostess.                     [Kissing her]
    And that same greatness too which our own hands
  FALSTAFF. I will not lend thee a penny.
     My services are bound. Wherefore should I
    And so in progress to be hatch'd and born-
    profession.
    [To ANNE]  Come, madam, you must straight to
    Prince your brother; spare not to tell him that he hath wronged
satisfaction, and so would I. All the gentlewomen here have forgiven
    Or wear it on my sword, yet my poor country
    The world hath noted, and your name is great
  CLEOPATRA. Peace, peace!
    For your displeasure, but all will sure be well.
    Quite out of fashion, like a rusty mail
                         Enter MARIA
  LUCIUS. The taper burneth in your closet, sir.
    Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word,  
    The canon of the law is laid on him,
       [Sings] The god of love,
  TAMORA. Nay, nay, sweet Emperor, we must all be friends.
    From the hard hands of peasants their vile trash
    Whose hollow womb inherits nought but bones.
    As I had leave of means.
    And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
  SIR TOBY. Hold, sir, or I'll throw your dagger o'er the house.
    Alas, alas! put up your naked weapons, put up your naked weapons.
  MENAS. From Silvius, sir.
  
    And all th' embossed sores and headed evils
    Pierc'd through the heart with your stern cruelty;
  YORK. Thou frantic woman, what dost thou make here?
    But make amends now. Get you gone,
  Fool. No, he's a yeoman that has a gentleman to his son; for he's a
  LUCIO. That's I, an't like your Grace.
    Sometime he talks as if Duke Humphrey's ghost
    And she shall file our engines with advice
                   Enter TALBOT, with trump and drum
    Return and tell him so. We know the worst.
  FIRST MURTHERER. Wast not the way?
    Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
  SALERIO. We have been up and down to seek him.
      with a rheum;
    By south and east is to my part assign'd;
    Hath banish'd me, his daughter?
    for I see love hath made thee tame snake, and say this to her-
  Claud. Now, signior, what news?
  THERSITES. Here is such patchery, such juggling, and such knavery.
    O good Horatio, what a wounded name
    And after, every of this happy number,
    And made a gap in nature.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Not so; even through the hollow eyes of death

    Having no other reason
    For as the sun is daily new and old,
    Straight shall our nuptial rites be solemniz'd;

    Who on the French ground play'd a tragedy,
  Bene. Beatrice--
                      Enter the two MURDERERS
    day's news. I pray you, sir, of what disposition was the Duke?
    Many receipts he gave me; chiefly one,
              Came crying 'mongst his foes,
                        Enter PISTOL  
  LADY FAULCONBRIDGE. Hast thou conspired with thy brother too,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
    When haply he shall hear that she is gone  
    Most holy and religious fear it is
  RICHARD. Now, Clifford, I have singled thee alone.
  PROSPERO. Hence! Hang not on my garments.

    the table, serve in the meat, and we will come in to dinner.

                When it hoars ere it be spent.
    in, it runs out.
    Our written purposes before us sent;
  OTHELLO. O, yes, and went between us very oft.

    First, if all obstacles were cut away,
  Serv. Now I'll tell you without asking. My master is the great rich
  LUCIUS. 'Lack, good youth!
    As that is desperate which we would prevent.
SCENE IV.
  JESSICA. Nay, but ask my opinion too of that.
    Faults proper to himself. If he had so offended,
    Yet, since it is but green, it should be put
  JULIA. Will ye be gone?

    Where, from thy sight, I should be raging mad
    Give me some ink and paper.
    to keep Prince Harry in continual laughter the wearing out of six
  To leap large lengths of miles when thou art gone,
    Pray, set it down and rest you; when this burns,
    To speak and strike? O Rome, I make thee promise,
  Fool. Why, to put's head in; not to give it away to his daughters,
    And gain by ills thrice more than I have spent.
    Not fearing outward force, so shall my lungs
    Expire before the flowers in their caps,
  KING HENRY. Well have we done, thrice-valiant countrymen;
    hopes. Well, Jove, not I, is the doer of this, and he is to be

  I thank him, I bare home upon my shoulders;
    My friend, thy husband, honest, honest Iago.
  CHAMBERLAIN. How now! what is't?
    But for thy world enjoying but this land,
    promises; her dispositions she inherits, which makes fair gifts
  DUKE. Upon mine honour, thou shalt marry her.
  CAMILLO. None rare, my lord.
  THIRD GENTLEMAN.            The ship is here put in,
    show in the posterior of this day, to be rend'red by our
  DEMETRIUS. Gramercy, lovely Lucius. What's the news?
  My heart doth plead that thou in him dost lie,
    But little for my profit; can you think, lords,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  JULIA. That fits as well as 'Tell me, good my lord,
  JULIA. From my master, Sir Proteus, madam.
    As you have done my truth. If he know

  Hot. Nay, then I cannot blame his cousin king,
    And towards London do they bend their power,  
  CYMBELINE. A worthy fellow,
    Each corporal agent to this terrible feat.
    Mine eyes, ev'n sociable to the show of thine,  
    a struck fowl or a hurt wild duck. I press'd me none but such
    Like to Lysander sometime frame thy tongue,
    Take up the English short, and let them know
  VIOLA. What money, sir?
  Ham. How is it with you, lady?
    That thou wilt never render to me more!
    Have misbecom'd our oaths and gravities,
    The shadow of your face.
Scene IV
    But since your falsehood shall become you well
    But canst thou guess that he doth aim at it?
    and that instructed him to mercy.
    To have his title live in Aquitaine;
    But when in other habits you are seen,
    To Marcius shall be honours, though indeed

    Yield at entreats, and then let me alone:
    Did ever keep your counsels, never wrong'd you;
    For you serve knaves.                                   Exit
    His hands were guilty of no kindred blood,
    Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
    To be her men and wear her livery:
    Cannot endure my absence.
                       Enter STEPHANO
    Hast prisoner held, fett'red in amorous chains,
  BRUTUS. I do not like your faults.
             Teaching all that read to know
  MACDUFF. Approach the chamber, and destroy your sight
A room in Leonato's house.
    telling your mind. Give her no token but stones, for she's as
    Tell Bolingbroke, for yon methinks he stands,
    I say, if damn'd commotion so appear'd
    that is the point.
  Ham. Whose was it?
    Forgetting, like a good man, your late censure
    Thou that threw'st dust upon his goodly head,
    To come abroad with him at his request.

    And leave your children, wives, and you, in peace.
  TREBONIUS. 'Tis time to part.
    Mingled with venom of suggestion-
  Fal. Yea, or the drone of a Lincolnshire bagpipe.
    could find in my heart-
                   Banquo's Ghost following.
    Therefore, for God's sake, entertain good comfort,
  AUFIDIUS. O, doubt not that!
  Ham. I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in't.
    With profits of the mind, study and fast.
    Upon what sickness?
    It proves not so. Their battles are at hand;
    Farewell, York's wife, and queen of sad mischance;
    Flower as she was, deflowered by him.
    whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as
  CAPTAIN. The morn is fair. Good morrow, General.

    For insurrection's arguing.
    Our musty superfluity. See, our best elders.
    They would not mark me; if they did mark,
    very plausive invention that carries it. They begin to smoke me;
  DUKE OF GLOUCESTER, brother to the King
    But tell me then, 'tis so; for, look, thy cheeks
  DESDEMONA. And what's the news, good cousin Lodovico?
    And not retire. Let me have your good will.
  WOLSEY. Your Grace,
    Care is no cure, but rather corrosive,
    I return'd you an empty messenger.
    Two of the first, like coats in heraldry,
    Except you mean with obstinate repulse
            'Tis Hymen peoples every town;
    The loyal'st husband that did e'er plight troth;
    But death doth front thee with apparent spoil
    Lucius proconsul; and to you, the tribunes,
    shall a man take you to go in the song?
    Thou art a widow, and thou hast some children;
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    And I'll no longer be a Capulet.
  THYREUS. Caesar, I shall.                               Exeunt
  CAIUS. Vat be all you, one, two, tree, four, come for?
     lust, as Obidicut; Hobbididence, prince of dumbness; Mahu, of
    'Tis much when sceptres are in children's hands;
    high; and the very same day did I fight with one Sampson
  Kent. Good my liege-
    Of death, contagion, and unnatural sleep.
    For our proud Empress, mighty Tamora.
  Leon. I cannot bid you bid my daughter live-
    I thank thee for myself.
    But none can drive him from the envious plea
    As true as steel, as plantage to the moon,
    A black day will it be to somebody.
  But my five wits, nor my five senses can
     My truth and honour firmly.
  DESDEMONA. He says he will return incontinent.
    And that which looks like pride is courtesy.
  MALVOLIO. I marvel your ladyship takes delight in such a barren
    beseek you now, aggravate your choler.
    To that which had too much.' Then, being there alone,
  HORTENSIUS. I'm weary of this charge, the gods can witness;
    And I shall lose my life for want of language.
     I am cut to th' brains.
    that has no more brain than a stone. Look you now, he's out of

    I will from henceforth rather be myself,
    My strength can give you; then no more remains

    Did not together pluck such envy from him
    Most vilely; for my vantage, excellent;
    My stern effects. Then what I have to do
    It shall be so.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  Desire is death, which physic did except.
  ISABELLA. Alas! what poor ability's in me

  CRANMER. Stay, good my lords,
                             Enter BARNARDINE
  GRUMIO. Marry, sir, with needle and thread.
  Oph. What means this, my lord?
  LADY MACBETH. Come on,
    The goodliest weapons of his armoury
    thick-pleached alley in mine orchard, were thus much overheard by
    My thrice-driven bed of down. I do agnize
  TROILUS. Ha! ha!
    to depart, I am come to advise you, comfort you, and pray with
  PAROLLES. What's pity?
    For by that name as oft as Lancaster
    But nakedness, thou detestable town!
    again to inflame it and to give satiety a fresh appetite,
  SECOND SERVANT. Dost thou love pictures? We will fetch thee
    In sooth, he might; then, if he were my brother's,
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. A crow without feather? Master, mean you so?
  Is lust in action, and till action, lust
  And teach your ears to list me with more heed.
    There shall not at your father's house these seven years
    King. Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
    True nobility is exempt from fear:
                     Enter another SERVINGMAN
    In deep of night to walk by this Herne's oak.
  Wife. What say you? Can you love the gentleman?
  AGUECHEEK. If a bloody coxcomb be a hurt, you have hurt me; I think
  MACBETH. As I descended?
    But for your son- believe it, O, believe it!-
  My self corrupting salving thy amiss,
    You have forgot the will I told you of.
  FIRST SENATOR. Noble and young,  
  WARWICK. From off the gates of York fetch down the head,
    If not, why then this parting was well made.
Enter PAULINA, a GENTLEMAN, and ATTENDANTS
    The like do you; so shall we pass along,
    To th' end of reck'ning.

    The love that lean'd on them as slippery too,
  Friar. Lady, you come hither to be married to this count?
    But you must join in souls to mock me too?
    That virtuous prince, the good Duke Humphrey;
  ANGELO. Well; come to me to-morrow.
  WARWICK. 'Tis one o'clock, and past.  

    I have forgot the map.
  PROSPERO. Say again, where didst thou leave these varlets?
    To touch his growth nearer than he touch'd mine.
  ORLANDO. You have my consent. Let your wedding be to-morrow.
    Till Lionel's issue fails, his should not reign.  
  And, not being able to buy out his life,
    In his own conduct, purposely to take
    If frosts and fasts, hard lodging and thin weeds,
    So long as out of limit and true rule
    To bloody battles and to bruising arms.

  Belike you thought our love would last too long,

  Serv. Ye say honestly. Rest you merry!
                 and look on during the dance].
  PISTOL. Then did the sun on dunghill shine.  
  HELENA. Sir, I can nothing say
             Enter KING EDWARD and a HUNTSMAN with him
    Young scamels from the rock. Wilt thou go with me?

    But you like none, none you for constant heart.
      kindness
    Removed from thy sin-conceiving womb.
    Believe false teachers; though those that are betray'd
    And you may then revolve what tales I have told you
  ALONSO. Good boatswain, have care. Where's the master?  
    Night hangs upon mine eyes, my bones would rest
    the falcon her bells, so man hath his desires; and as pigeons
  SIR TOBY. Come, bring us, bring us where he is.         Exeunt
  MAN. The spoons will be the bigger, sir. There is a fellow
    Under whose shade the ramping lion slept,
    That you unfold to me, yourself, your half,
    With this most tender air.
  CHARMIAN. Lord Alexas, sweet Alexas, most anything Alexas, almost
  IAGO. What are you here that cry so grievously?
    With clog of conscience and sour melancholy,
    Crying confusion.
  ANTONY. Where is she?
    I bring a trumpet to awake his ear,  
    matter. I am given, sir, secretly to understand that your younger
  Happy to have thy love, happy to die!
    question's out of my part. Good gentle one, give me modest
  SIR TOBY. Do; cuff him soundly, but never draw thy sword.
  FIRST SERVANT. I think he is; but a greater soldier than he you wot
    I fear it much; and I do fear besides
    I barely gratify your love; they failing,
          Enter PEMBROKE, SALISBURY, and BIGOT

  Lear. I'll see their trial first. Bring in their evidence.
    that I told thee of-
  Ros. Ay, my lord. They stay upon your patience.
WESTMORELAND, OFFICERS, and others
  LAVINIA. 'Tis present death I beg; and one thing more,
    If brothers. [Aside] Would it had been so that they
ACT_4|SC_12
  SHYLOCK. Three thousand ducats- 'tis a good round sum.
    of apple-johns before him, and told him there were five more Sir
    And wouldst thou turn our offers contrary?

    So shall you quietly enjoy your hope
  DESDEMONA. Why, so I can, sir, but I will not now.

  OTHELLO.             Death and damnation! O!
    defence, yet is weak. Unfold to us some warlike resistance.
    As well we know your tenderness of heart
    of sweet gloves.
  WILLOUGHBY. And daily new exactions are devis'd,
    But Harry lives that shall convert those tears
  LUCENTIO. I thank thee for that gird, good Tranio.
    Stones have been known to move and trees to speak;  
    And we must sleep. That thou depart'st hence safe
    I stood engag'd; but when I had subscrib'd
    Betideth here in absence of thy friend;
    But judge you as you are? O, think on that;

  IMOGEN. O the gods!
    In spite of Burgundy and all his friends.
  MESSALA. No, my lord.
    From Lisbon, Barbary, and India,
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Do not say so.
  SIR TOBY. Welcome, ass. Now let's have a catch.
  SON. Then the liars and swearers are fools, for there are liars and
    Hence, pack! there's gold; you came for gold, ye slaves.
  MONTJOY. I shall deliver so. Thanks to your Highness.     Exit
    and give it bountiful to the desirers. Therefore, beseech you I
  PROSPERO.  [Aside]  I had forgot that foul conspiracy
  Romans and Goths, Senators, Tribunes, Officers, Soldiers, and
    You found his mote; the King your mote did see;


    days that I have spent! and to see how many of my old
    I am not I, if there be such an 'I';
    scratching of thee; I would make thee the loathsomest scab in
    Of fickle changelings and poor discontents,
  MESSALA. That by proscription and bills of outlawry
    If thou keep promise, I shall end this strife,
    Although my will distaste what it elected,
  BAPTISTA. Well, gentlemen,
  CAESAR. Farewell, my dearest sister, fare thee well.
  ROSALIND. O excellent young man!
  HUBERT. The King, I fear, is poison'd by a monk;

SCENE VI.
    Is touch'd corruptibly, and his pure brain.
    As bombast and as lining to the time;
  ORLANDO. You should ask me what time o' day; there's no clock in
    No; dark shall be my light and night my day;
    ready at the farthest by five of the clock. See these letters
    Were harbour'd in their rude circumference.
    Of that occasion that shall bring it on.

  KING RICHARD. Marshal, ask yonder knight in arms,
    That, Escalus.
Milan. An abbey
    -hissing hot. Think of that, Master Brook.
    it, which they know to be his character; the majesty of the
by William Shakespeare
    The help of mine own eyes.
    Then be at peace, except ye thirst for blood.
THE END
  PROTEUS. True; and thy master a shepherd.
    Lay forth the gown.
  IAGO. I know not that; but such a handkerchief-
    That with the very shaking of their chains
    honourable gentleman. Good Servilius, will you befriend me so far
    ere you had done.
  FIRST SOLDIER. Well, sir, good night.
  YORK. I'll not be by the while. My liege, farewell.
  FITZWATER. Surrey, thou liest.
  PUCELLE, that witch, that damned sorceress,
    Hack'd one another in the sides of Caesar.
    gentlemen.  
    And wish he had not so accused her--
  BEROWNE. Thus pour the stars down plagues for perjury.
                                        Exeunt [all but Hamlet].
    Which ever in the haunch of winter sings
    Is leaning cheek to cheek? Is meeting noses?  
    In my oration, how the people take
    There's place and means for every man alive.
  SHALLOW. He greets me well, sir; I knew him a good back-sword man.

    As our conditions shall consist upon,

DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  Lear. O, ho, are you there with me? No eyes in your head, nor no
    son. My daughter. He kill'd my cousin Marcus. He kill'd my
    The time when screech-owls cry and ban-dogs howl,
    And give to dust that is a little gilt
    I say, but mark his gesture. Marry, patience,
  IAGO. Think, my lord?
  CRESSIDA. Well, well.
  Ham. Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to
  AGAMEMNON. Go we to council. Let Achilles sleep.
    No, not th' expulsion of the Tarquins.
    I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
    And on my eyelids shall conjecture hang,
  WARWICK. How now! what news?
    Benedick that, in despite of his quick wit and his queasy
  ARTHUR. O, save me, Hubert, save me! My eyes are out
    Pity the dearth that I have pined in
  CARLISLE. Fear not, my lord; that Power that made you king
     This world I do renounce, and, in your sights,
    Hear from me still, and never of me aught
    This eye shoots forth! How big imagination
  WOLSEY. That's somewhat sudden.
    by the tree, then, peremptorily I speak it, there is virtue in
    But from what cause he will by no means speak.
    Off with that bauble, throw it underfoot.
    Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,
    When Richmond was a little peevish boy.
    Yea, his dread trident shake.
    colic, you make faces like mummers, set up the bloody flag
  POET. For shame, you generals! What do you mean?
  HELENA. None, but your beauty; would that fault were mine!
  HELENA. I like him well.  
        If I court moe women, you'll couch with moe men-"
    Her and her virtues, I cannot forget
    vice to know him. He hath much land, and fertile. Let a beast be

              Enter Antony and others, with Caesar's body.
    As not a soldier of this season's stamp
  FIRST SOLDIER. Well, that's set down.
    Combat with adverse planets in the heavens.
  OLIVIA. What is your name?
  APEMANTUS. Where my stomach. finds meat; or rather, where I eat it.
    That have this golden chance, and know not why.
  ANNE. Now, I pray God, amen!
    Another lean unwash'd artificer
      Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
    Thou baleful messenger, out of my sight!
  BERTRAM. How now, monsieur! This drum sticks sorely in your  
  LORD MAYOR OF LONDON

    Of hoarding abbots; imprisoned angels
    Our former hatred, so thrive I and mine!
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    And fix'd on spiritual object, he should still

    Which, look'd on as it is, is nought but shadows
  PROSPERO. Mark but the badges of these men, my lords,
  WIFE. Alas, sir, we did it for pure need!
  Edm. The enemy 's in view; draw up your powers.
    For long agone I have forgot to court;
    Post you to London, and you will find it so;
    Shall lose the royalty of England's throne.
    Thou art the list.
    That I enjoy, being the Queen thereof.
  Gent. She speaks much of her father; says she hears
    She was belov'd, she lov'd; she is, and doth;
    Over my thigh, and sigh'd and kiss'd; and then

    you? Sir Toby, my lady prays you to have a care of him.
    Benedick.
    church. I have dogg'd him like his murderer. He does obey every
    And carriage of the article design'd,
    passion to say wherewith-'

    had stay'd by him, I would not have been so fidius'd for all the
    He knows I am no maid, and he'll swear to't:  
    And in despite I'll cram thee with more food.
    reproach.
    Wall, that vile Wall which did these lovers sunder;
    i' th' Moon, when time was.
  FIRST WATCHMAN. Why, no; for he hath made a solemn vow
  CLIFFORD. La fin couronne les oeuvres.                  [Dies]
    To burn the errors that these princes hold
    I can watch you for telling how I took the blow; unless it swell
    March all one way and be no more oppos'd
    Being ne'er so little urg'd, another way
    Or less!- at first? Perchance he spoke not, but,
  ANGELO. At any time 'fore noon.
  Hor. 'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
    To give some labourers room.
    And death's dishonourable victory
  MACBETH. [Aside.] Come what come may,
                            Enter two PAGES
    creature.
    hideous opinion of his rage, skill, fury, and impetuosity. This
  If my dear love were but the child of state,
    wood, I have enough to serve mine own turn.
  JULIA.  [Aside]  She needs not, when she knows it cowardice.
    Give him this letter; do it secretly.
    Hath not deserv'd my service nor your loves,
  Beat. It is not seen enough. You should wear it in your cap. By my
  FORD. I'll prat her.  [Beating him]  Out of my door, you
    Here is a letter from Queen Hecuba,
  Hast thou the master mistress of my passion,
    Than thee, all noble Marcius. Let me twine
    Anne Bullen! No, I'll no Anne Bullens for him;
    Yet, for our gentlemen that mean to see  
  Laer. No.

    Between his greatness and thy other brethren.
                                   Cassio and Roderigo are borne off.  
  SIR TOBY. Do't, knight. I'll write thee a challenge; or I'll
  DUKE. It may be right; but you are i' the wrong

  Do I not think on thee when I forgot
    Lead, lead. [Aside] The time seems long; their blood thinks scorn
  AARON. Sooner this sword shall plough thy bowels up.  
    How sweet a plant have you untimely cropp'd!

    I never saw but Humphrey Duke of Gloucester
  John. Holy Franciscan friar, brother, ho!
    But give them to his master for a present.

  POET. Ay, that's well known.
    The world affords no law to make thee rich;
    And, in advantage ling'ring, looks for rescue,
  ELBOW. To your worship's house, sir?
    For this the foolish over-careful fathers  
THE END

    And great affinity and that in wholesome wisdom
    That grew upon my lips; then laid his leg
    hang'd himself in Thisby's garter, it would have been a fine
    I crave the benefit of law of arms.
    All members of our cause, both here and hence,
    coming to the ark. Here comes a pair of very strange beasts which
    Which honour does acknowledge, whereof the least
    Menas, I'll not on shore.
                       Exeunt [Don Pedro, Claudio, and Leonato].
    idle huswife with me this afternoon.
  SICINIUS. The custom of request you have discharg'd.
    Moor are now making the beast with two backs.
    Queen. Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light,
SCENE 4.
    In peril to incur your former malady,
        Himself would lodge where, senseless, they are lying!
  CLEOPATRA. Why should I think you can be mine and true,  
    Wife to thy Edward, to thy slaughtered son,
    Thy dangerous stoutness; for I mock at death
    An open et cetera, thou a pop'rin pear!
    And therefore is wing'd Cupid painted blind.
  FABIAN. O, peace, peace!
  ENOBARBUS. Naught, naught, all naught! I can behold no longer.
    To them for you.
  KING. Despise me when I break this oath of mine.
    Or but a sickly part of one true sense
London. The palace
    In every lineament, branch, shape, and form.
  CAPTAIN of a band of Welshmen         TWO GARDENERS  
    Shall-
    His father revell'd in the heart of France,
    Have made themselves so strong- for with her death
  MALVOLIO. She returns this ring to you, sir; you might have saved
    Will with a trumpet 'twixt our tents and Troy,
    say again, take her away.
  CLEOPATRA. Nay, I'll help too.
    I have o'ershot myself to tell you of it.
  SHALLOW. With red wheat, Davy. But for William cook- are there no
    Hoists sails and flies.
    The Frenchman gave you; bring you in fine together
    His givings-out were of an infinite distance
    Play'd for a pair of stainless maidenhoods.
    And thou shalt be the third, if this sword hold.
    know not, but methinks you look with your eyes as other women do.
    a box of the ear of the Englishman, and swore he would pay him
  HUBERT. I have sworn to do it;
    together.
    We would, dear lords, unto the Holy Land.            Exeunt
    To crown my thoughts with acts, be it thought and done:
    As fast as they are made, forgot as soon
    Sent from our uncle Duke of Burgundy.
  SECRETARY. Here, so please you.
  HORTENSIO. Petruchio, patience; I am Grumio's pledge;
    your daughter, who is now Queen.
  BRUTUS. Even so, Lucilius.
    What compass will you wear your farthingale.'
    know, Master Froth, I could not give you three pence again-
                        Enter WESTMORELAND
  CHARMIAN. Good your Highness, patience.
     Or ere I'll weep. O fool, I shall go mad!
              Enter the Prince [and Attendants].
    For they must all be mask'd and vizarded-
    both the scales against either scale, who committed treason
  Kent. Good King, that must approve the common saw,
  That I have hoisted sail to all the winds
  Ben. Why, what is Tybalt?  
  SIR TOBY. Then hadst thou had an excellent head of hair.
    Let them have scope; though what they will impart
  COUNTESS. And he is welcome. What! is this the man?  
  PORTIA. What sum owes he the Jew?
     Thou shalt not die. Die for adultery? No.
    rustically at home, or, to speak more properly, stays me here at
    And yet not so, for with a kiss 'twas made.
    The state takes notice of the private difference
  KING HENRY. Hadst thou been kill'd when first thou didst presume,  

           'Then music with her silver sound
    Whom everything becomes- to chide, to laugh,
  PERDITA. O Doricles,
  SLENDER.  [Aside]  O sweet Anne Page!
    To bring this matter to the wished end.
    'Tis not the difference of a year or two
    O, sir, plantain, a plain plantain; no l'envoy, no l'envoy; no

    Notice to Escalus and Angelo,
  CLEOPATRA. Thou, eunuch Mardian!
  TRINCULO. A most ridiculous monster, to make a wonder of
    And see him dress'd in all suits like a lady;
    But in your bride you bury brotherhood.
    And you shall see 'tis purchas'd by the weight,

    Ruling in large and ample empery  
    Should presently extirpate me and mine
    Than to perform it first.
    That one meets Hector; if none else, I am he.
          They sound a parley. Enter two SENATORS with others,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    And bleat the one at th' other. What we chang'd
    And you shall understand from me her mind.  
    We'll never leave till we have hewn thee down,  
    But fare ye well; 'tis partly my own fault,
  KING RICHARD. We were not born to sue, but to command;
    Stretches itself beyond the hour of death.
    are legs for necessity, not for flexure.
  COMINIUS. So, to our tent;
    He was the wretched'st thing when he was young,
    That taught his son the office of a fowl!
  SIR TOBY. We did keep time, sir, in our catches. Sneck up!
    So, get thee gone; commend me to thy lord.
    You would be fing'ring them, to anger me.
    Of mortal breathing. Seize it, if thou dar'st.
    but I warrant thee, Claudio, the time shall not go dully by us.
    Who bow'd but in my stirrup, bend like his
  CHIRON. What, wouldst thou have me prove myself a bastard?
    As I am sick with working of my thoughts.
    I feel my heart new open'd. O, how wretched
  CHARMIAN. Speak softly, wake her not.
    Live like Diana's priest betwixt cold sheets,
  Ber. 'Tis here!

  EVANS. Ay.
    For we no longer are defensible.
    Witness how dear I hold this confirmation.
    Say Warwick was our anchor; what of that?
    Than it should do offense to Michael Cassio;  
  PUCK. A stranger Pyramus than e'er played here!           Exit
    So I, admiring of his qualities.
    Hang over thee, as sure it shortly will.
    The medicine of our house- how shall we do?
    think I have wit enough to lie straight in my bed. I know I can
    Edmund had issue, Roger Earl of March;  
    Out of the teeth of emulation.
    Is this the balsam that the usuring Senate
    [To RICHMOND]  Virtuous and holy, be thou conqueror!
    I'll give you something else.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
                     Enter CLIFFORD and his SON
            Re-enter PRINCE JOHN, the LORD CHIEF JUSTICE,
    But I will charm him first to keep his tongue.
    The centre is not big enough to bear
 ELY. How did this offer seem receiv'd, my lord?
    With other muniments and petty helps
    Methinks I see this hurly all on foot;
    What valiant foemen, like to autumn's corn,
  SLENDER. Ay, you spake in Latin then too; but 'tis no matter;
    Boys.
    Come, come; thou'lt do my message, wilt thou not?
    God knows I had as lief be none as one.
    Reveng'd may she be on that hateful Duke,
    Or else conclude my words effectual.
    The heads of all thy brother cardinals,
    But that it bear this trial, and last love,
  LEONTES. Tongue-tied, our Queen? Speak you.
  BEROWNE. You are welcome, sir; adieu!
    And overmuch consum'd his royal person!
    And I'll request your presence.
  BLANCH. There where my fortune lives, there my life dies.
    With them a bastard of the king's deceas'd;

SCENE V.
    then will they adventure upon the exploit themselves; which they
    In answer of which claim, the Prince our master
  GRUMIO. I gave him no order; I gave him the stuff.
    Come, your lord calls!
  Made more or less by thy continual haste:
  GOWER. I think it be.
    But soft, but see, or rather do not see,

    And that I'll prove on better men than Somerset,
    miscarry!
    That knows no touch to tune the harmony.
  TITINIUS. They are, my lord.  
     Appear like mice; and yond tall anchoring bark,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
ADRIANA. And come with naked swords.
  Pol. Ay, fashion you may call it. Go to, go to!
  Edm. Sound!                                     First trumpet.
  AUTOLYCUS. Adieu, sir.
    Made issue from the bosom of the boy;
  FIRST LORD. Hurt him! His body's a passable carcass if he be not
  VIOLA. I will acquit you.
    Come, offer at my shrine, and I will help thee.'
                          Enter MENENIUS
  FATHER. Thou that so stoutly hath resisted me,
    For even to vice

           Enter LUCIUS, CAPTAINS, and a SOOTHSAYER
    For loving where you do; but if yourself,
    deliver'd in the most bitter touch of sorrow that e'er I heard
    Yet our old love had a particular force,
  QUEEN MARGARET. O, kill me too!
    The strangeness of this business; at pick'd leisure,
  Leon. No, and swears she never will. That's her torment.
    With dreadful pomp of stout invasion!
    know thou art no tall fellow of thy hands and that thou wilt be
    The other, at high wish. Best state, contentless,
    That which in mean men we entitle patience
  PROTEUS. I grant, sweet love, that I did love a lady;  
  BERTRAM. A pox on him! he's a cat still.
    According to the weight and worthiness.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. Certainly
    So strive upon your pulse. What! pale again?  
    many meals? Come, what's Agamemnon?
    Even on the instant.
    ill advantage of his absence. You are undone.
  Unwilling, I agreed. Alas! too soon
Enter Flavius, Marullus, and certain Commoners.
    Some tricks, some quillets, how to cheat the devil!
    Good man, the wounds that he does bear for Rome!

    I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of Henry Lord Scroop
    Whom with my bare fists I would execute,
    I'll know your business, Harry; that I will!
  SECOND MURDERER. I would he knew that I had sav'd his

    And I likewise will visit thee with mine.
    My health and happy being at your court.
  EMILIA.                    O, the more angel she,
    those that would make mows at him while my father lived give
    And pluck the mangled Tybalt from his shroud.,
    With haughty arms this hateful name in us.
    The sea will ebb and flow, heaven show his face;
  BANQUO. Thou hast it now: King, Cawdor, Glamis, all,
    In Rome as well as I. Mechanic slaves,
  LUCIO. Well, my lord.
  QUEEN. We thank you all.                            [Flourish]
  In process of the seasons have I seen,
  TAMORA. My gracious lord, my lovely Saturnine,
    That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
    the hostess say 'Welcome!'
    And here advance it in the market-place,
  BIANCA. Save you, friend Cassio!
    Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
    The times that brought them in; so shall I do
    And bid thee bear his pretty tales in mind
    friends.
    Which made me down to throw my books, and fly-
                                           [Cornets, and exeunt]
    That so I may by this device at least
    But brats and beggary- in self-figur'd knot,
    But welcome, sweet Clarence; my daughter shall be thine.
    With arms encumb'red thus, or this head-shake,
    And did avoid a puttock.
  FALSTAFF. Keep them off, Bardolph.
  ARCHIDAMUS. Wherein our entertainment shall shame us we will be
    You are deceiv'd, my substance is not here;
  Ben. Not to his father's. I spoke with his man.
    At many times I brought in my accounts,  
    'Twas full of darnel-do you like the taste?
    My age was never tainted with such shame.
  North. My lord-
    In single combat thou shalt buckle with me;

    As she is stubborn-chaste against all suit.
  VERNON. If I, my lord, for my opinion bleed,
London. The Council Chamber
    Will stand betwixt you and danger.                    Exeunt
    Bounty, perseverance, mercy, lowliness,
    How does your honour for this many a day?
    More than God or religious churchmen may.
    for fleas. I am stung like a tench.
    Was a deep envious one.

    Or how far further shall, is warranted
  STEPHANO. We'll not run, Monsieur Monster.
     To the warm sun!
    But what he look'd for should oppose and she
  KATHERINE. D'elbow. Je m'en fais la repetition de tous les mots que
    I will bestow you where you shall have time
    And chatt'ring pies in dismal discords sung;

ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Why, Dromio?
  SECOND LORD. I'll attend your lordship.
    And with an accent tun'd in self-same key
  Hor. What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
    To undergo such ample grace and honour,
  Before the golden tresses of the dead,
    full of obstacles: it made me once restore a purse of gold

  VINCENTIO. Lucentio, gentle sir.
    And in my house you shall be friendly lodg'd;
    And brother Clarence, and you, brother Gloucester,
  Lo in the orient when the gracious light
    My pray'rs to heaven for you; my loyalty,
    Who after me hath many a weary step
    Were in Arabia, and thy tribe before him,  

    Till time beget some careful remedy.
    And many strokes, though with a little axe,  
  Therefore in that I cannot know thy change,
    Or in thy piteous heart plant thou thine ear,
  JAQUES. You are full of pretty answers. Have you not been  

  PETRUCHIO. No, not a whit; I find you passing gentle.
    As for my patron, stand you so assur'd,
    Draw, archers, draw your arrows to the head!
  NORFOLK. What's the cause?
    Limps after in base imitation.

Before the castle.
    Nor purposed merit in futurity
  BUSHY. Well, we may meet again.
    I humbly do beseech you of your pardon
  TRANIO. Not so well apparell'd
    Had slipp'd our claim until another age.

  PANDARUS. Nor his beauty.
    Fenton. Well, I must of another errand to Sir John Falstaff
    When we will tempt the frailty of our powers,
  Kent. Importune him once more to go, my lord.
  Excuse not silence so, for't lies in thee,
    word.
  HASTINGS. Now, noble peers, the cause why we are met
  Needs must I under my transgression bow,
    Those healths will make thee and thy state look ill, Timon.
  nothing like so clean kept; for why, she sweats, a man may
    Your sense pursues not mine; either you are ignorant
  PORTIA. A pound of that same merchant's flesh is thine.  
  DIANA. He-
    With twenty odd-conceited true-love knots-
  Beat. In faith, I will go.

    And by still practice learn to know thy meaning.
    And so he comes, to rend his limbs asunder.
    in his favours?
  NYM. [Shaking hands] Well, then, that's the humour of't.
    To take them in protection?
    To cure thy o'ernight's surfeit? Call the creatures
    Are joyfully return'd.
    is left of him what he is, fetch me to th' sight of him.
    This thought is as a death which cannot choose
    My sisterly remorse confutes mine honour,
  SON. Then you'll buy 'em to sell again.

    And your unblest fate hies. Strumpet, I come!

    kings and princes; for by such was it acted.
    Did I deserve no more than a fool's head?
    His hands abroad display'd, as one that grasp'd
    And bid his ears a little while be deaf,
  FORD. I have long lov'd her, and, I protest to you, bestowed

    Rage like an angry boar chafed with sweat?
    Dashes the fire out. O, I have suffered
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Be thou a prey unto the house of York
  Fal. By the mass, lad, thou sayest true; it is like we shall have
  PROVOST. It was commanded so.
  MAECENAS. We shall,
    That heart which now abhors to like his love.         Exeunt
  GRATIANO. We'll play with them: the first boy for a thousand
    Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
    Therefore 'twere reason you had manners now.
  OCTAVIA. Thanks to my lord.
    Rather corrupt me ever!
    Come, gentlemen, ye shall go my way, which
    That thinks men honest that but seem to be so,
    Confederate in the fact; ay, more there was,
    ascent is not by such easy degrees as those who, having been
    can fetch and carry.' Why, a horse can do no more; nay, a horse
    Desire the Earl to see me in my tent.
    Commend these waters to those baby eyes
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Will you permit that I shall stand condemn'd
  LARTIUS. Hence, and shut your gates upon's.
  WESTMORELAND. Mowbray. you overween to take it so.
    More worthy I to be beloved of thee.
    Here grow no damned drugs, here are no storms,
                   REIGNIER, LA PUCELLE, and forces
    Marry, go before to field, he'll be your follower!  
                                                 Exeunt SERVANTS
  Others, but stewards of their excellence:
    Striving to make an ugly deed look fair;
  BUCKINGHAM. Or thou or I, Somerset, will be Protector,
    With dignities becoming your estates.
  HOST. Hast thou no suit against my knight, my guest-cavaleiro.
    Where is your ancient courage? You were us'd
    Sweet practiser, thy physic I will try,


    that she will rather die than give any sign of affection. I did
  ORLANDO. Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar that which God made, a
    To us the speaker in His parliament,
  '"Among the many that mine eyes have seen,
    thousands to be paid from the Sophy.
    As worthy cause I have to fear I am-
    And, Benedick, love on; I will requite thee,
  Ham. What, the fair Ophelia?

  SLENDER. Truly, for mine own part I would little or nothing
     I know when one is dead, and when one lives.
  Fal. O Hal, I prithee give me leave to breathe awhile. Turk Gregory
    To love that well, which thou must leave ere long.
    Be plain, Queen Margaret, and tell thy grief;
  MRS. OVERDONE. Well, well! there's one yonder arrested and carried
    yours?
    But jealousy what might befall your travel,
  ORLANDO. Pardon me, dear Rosalind.
    Whom thou, in terms so bloody and so dear,
    Your Grace attended to their sug'red words  
    scape hanging for killing that rogue. I have forsworn his company  
                and carrying out the table
    That blinking Cupid gossips. Now shall he-
  NYM. [Sheathing his sword] I shall have my noble?
  FLUELLEN. God-den to your worship, good Captain James.
  MACBETH. There's comfort yet; they are assailable.
  KING. Who's there, ha?
  CICERO. Good then, Casca. This disturbed sky
  HELENA. Which is the Frenchman?
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. What stay had I but Edward? and he's

    Believe not thy disdain, but presently
    Friend and companion in the front of war,  
  DUMAIN. O, shall I say I thank you, gentle wife?
    This, general joy.
  ROSALINE. What's your dark meaning, mouse, of this light word?
    But be as Ajax.

  Lear. Let me alone.
    I will confirm with oath; which I doubt not
  King. The King himself, who, Douglas, grieves at heart
  ALL. The Troyans' trumpet.
    in? Widow Dido!
    Go to the fellow, good Alexas; bid him
  PISANIO. I'll wake mine eyeballs first.
    slow as another.
  PEMBROKE. It is the Count Melun.
    with thee; if this be a horseman's coat, it hath seen very hot
  Of more pre-eminence than fish and fowls,
    So went he suited to his watery tomb;
  BIONDELLO. His daughter is to be brought by you to the supper.
    Will I upon thy party wear this rose;
    And with my hand at midnight held your head;

    What, have you given him any hard words of late?
    Of mine own kindred. When I wak'd, I found
    Ere he by sickness had been visited.
    Say, Signior Gremio, what can you assure her?

SCENE 4.
    More spongy to suck in the sense of fear,
    Whip him. Were't twenty of the greatest tributaries
after them, side by side, the two CARDINALS, WOLSEY and CAMPEIUS;
    never be day? I will trot to-morrow a mile, and my way shall be
    For what before it was.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    These rural latches to his entrance open,
    O sweet my mother, cast me not away!
  SICINIUS. Pray let's go.                                Exeunt
    I would she were in heaven, so she could
    'Tis not the trial of a woman's war,
  THERSITES. Ay, but that fool knows not himself.
    Her love is not the hare that I do hunt;
    And better in my mind not undertook.
  MARIANA. Merely, my lord.
    How can the law forbid my tongue to curse?
    This juggling witchcraft with revenue cherish;
    for if, look you, he were my brother, I would desire the Duke to
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  Than think that we before have heard them told:

    Let your general do his worst. For you, be that you are, long;
    The Prince but studies his companions
    Meaning henceforth to trouble you no more.
    Whose memory is written on the earth

    Preserver of my father, now of me;
    before they are married, would she say?
    For all my blood in Rome's great quarrel shed,
    O that I knew he were but in by th' week!
    Her bed is India; there she lies, a pearl;
    Many likelihoods inform'd me of this before, which hung so
    Now fear I this will give it start again;
  And all the rest forgot for which he toiled:
  Hor. It was, as I have seen it in his life,
  CATESBY. He for his father's sake so loves the Prince
    That come before the swallow dares, and take
    Heaven forgive him too!
  SLENDER. Nay, pray you lead the way.  
    Let us seem humbler after it is done
    And this small packet of Greek and Latin books.
    Shall bitterly begin his fearful date
    Of our flesh; few are angels; out of which frailty
  ANGELO. I will not do't.

  EMILIA.                          Thou art rash as fire, to say
    Of Buckingham to welcome them ashore.
  VIOLA. I see you what you are: you are too proud;
    So much I challenge that I may profess
    But kiss; one kiss! Rubies unparagon'd,
    A horse whereon the governor doth ride,
    My crack'd one to more care. Have with you, boys!
    A mean most meanly; and in ushering,
  ROSS. And for an earnest of a greater honor,
  MACBETH. Take thy face hence.                    Exit Servant.
    Wink each at other; hold the sweet jest up;
    your father.
    You kill her double. Nay, present your hand.
    my hair do but tickle me I must scratch.
  SECOND LORD. Ay, and the particular confirmations, point from
    else.
    You would have married her most shamefully,  
    When Marcus Brutus grows so covetous
    With such a costly loss of wealth and friends.
    seldom from the house of a most homely shepherd- a man, they say,
  ARMADO. The sweet war-man is dead and rotten; sweet chucks, beat
    not the million, 'twas caviary to the general; but it was (as I
  MARIANA. O my good lord! Sweet Isabel, take my part;
as prisoners; Soldiers, Captain.
    Did flesh his puny sword in Frenchmen's blood!

ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Thou art Dromio, thou art my
    For if such actions may have passage free,
  GOWER. Enough, Captain, you have astonish'd him.  
    Having bought love with such a bloody spoil.

    Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
  In thy soul's thought (all naked) will bestow it:
    Lo, what befell! He threw his eye aside,
    For well I wot the Empress never wags
    Here's such ado to make no stain a stain
    To scarlet indignation, and bedew
  And, knowing whom it was their hap to save,
  Fran. Anon, anon, sir.                                 [Exit.]
  FIRST WITCH. When shall we three meet again?
  CORIOLANUS. True, so I am.
  HUME. Come, my masters; the Duchess, I tell you, expects
    And therefore know how far I may be pitied.
    And have thee reverenc'd like a blessed saint.  
    well as waiting in the court, I can tell you.
    'Tis heavy with him; and am I then reveng'd,

    That have a father klll'd, a mother stain'd,
  MESSENGER. Sir, if you'd save your life, fly to your house.
  GLOUCESTER. Ah, thus King Henry throws away his crutch
    But, noble as he is, look where he comes.

    Even as the axe falls, if I be not faithful!
    This letter is mistook; it importeth none here.
  PLANTAGENET. And so thrive Richard as thy foes may fall!
    One word more, good lady.
  LUCIUS. What boots it thee to can thyself a sun?
    Came here to make us merry! And thou hast kill'd him.
  LYSANDER, in love with Hermia
    Methinks it should have power to steal both his,

    More than the infant that is born to-night.

  ALENCON. Here cometh Charles; I marvel how he sped.
  TIMON. The gods confound them all in thy conquest;
    But by contempt of nature.

    His temper, therefore, must be well observ'd.
    Meets with Lord Harry; and I fear, Sir Michael,
PINCH. More company! The fiend is strong within him.
    A child that guided dotards. To his mistress,
  ANNE. well put up your sword.
    which you have not; an unquestionable spirit, which you have not;
    And no one else but the delivered Empress.
  BOLINGBROKE. Norfolk, so far as to mine enemy.
    How hath your lordship brook'd imprisonment?
    and reason.
    No more the thirsty entrance of this soil
    I, Costard, running out, that was safely within,
  KING PHILIP. Women and fools, break off your conference.
  CLARENCE. [Aside to GLOUCESTER] I think he means to beg a child of
  CORIOLANUS. O,
    And happiness to his accomplices!
  ROSS. God save the King!
    Here in this island we arriv'd; and here
    There were none fine but Adam, Ralph, and Gregory;
    That ever love did make thee run into,
    Into baboon and monkey.

    Bassanio told him he would make some speed
    What answer makes King Lewis unto our letters?
    Like envious floods o'er-run her lovely face,

  ANTONY. Is he gone?
DUKE. Saw'st thou him enter at the abbey here?
                                         Exeunt Desdemona and Emilia.
    Since I am put to know that your own science
    To be the princely bride of such a lord,
  Good signior, take the stranger to my house,
    Have here bereft my brother of his life.
    That which so often you did bid me steal.
  YORK. Doth any one accuse York for a traitor?
    Whose fresh complexion and whose heart together
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Your worship's wife, my mistress at the Phoenix;
  That I in thy abundance am sufficed,
    Sun, hide thy beams. Timon hath done his reign.
  MACDUFF. Bleed, bleed, poor country!
    To steal from spiritual leisure a brief span
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Good morrow, and God save your Majesty!
Enter LEWIS and his train
    Enjoy the kingdom after my decease.
    true. The knight Sir John is there; and, I beseech you, be
    And so adieu, good madam; never more
  POMPEY. This is not yet an Alexandrian feast.
    Turns to restraint. Our natures do pursue,
    Seize upon Fife, give to the edge o' the sword
    me, and the foolish fortune of this girl, and what one thing,
     More richer than my tongue.
    It is some meteor that the sun exhales
    Laid gifts before him, proffer'd him their oaths,
    you that wrong.
    King's laws in now the King's quarrel. Where they feared the
    And hold thee to my heart.
    Of the unguarded hearts, heavens, how they wound!
    At his house this night.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
         Enter ENGLISH HERALD, with trumpet
    Huge!
  VERNON. Grant me the combat, gracious sovereign.
    For that will physic the great Myrmidon,
  GREMIO. My cake is dough, but I'll in among the rest;
  HELENA. I am not worthy of the wealth I owe,

  THESEUS. In himself he is;
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

  KING PHILIP. Thy rage shall burn thee up, and thou shalt turn
    O Caesar!                                     Sees the body.
    It is to see a nobleman want manners.
    neither savouring of poetry, wit, nor invention. I beseech your
  WIDOW. Come, come, you're mocking; we will have no telling.
    yield me.
    Worthy his youth and nobleness of birth.
    God save King Henry, unking'd Richard says,
  OLIVIA. For him, I think not on him; for his thoughts,
  CLOTEN. It would make any man cold to lose.
    be not a lawful cause for me to leave his service- look you, sir:
    Might there not be a charity in sin
    stockings, and 'tis a colour she abhors, and cross-garter'd, a
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  CADE. And, to speak truth, thou deserv'st no less. [Putting on SIR
  KING HENRY. Be patient, gentle Earl of Westmoreland.
    That I, forsooth, am stern and love them not?
  APEMANTUS. Of nothing so much as that I am not like Timon.
    The shame hereof will make me hide my head.
    My words would bandy her to my sweet love,
    His dukedom and his chair with me is left.
  DESDEMONA. I say, it is not lost.
    And God in justice hath reveal'd to us
    Tapster?
    To-night I take my leave. This naughty man
    I will be married to a wealtlly widow
    Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
  Guil. Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
                        Enter a MESSENGER
    This is the quondam King; let's seize upon him.
Enter MARCIUS, TITUS LARTIUS, with drum and colours,
    This hand hath made him proud with clapping him.
  MACBETH. We should have else desired your good advice,
  Pedro. How, how, I pray you? You amaze me. I would have thought her
    That's done-as near as the extremest ends
    Or, if thou follow me, do not believe
    Each in his office ready at thy beck.
  ORLEANS. Will it never be morning?
    Confounded be thyself! Speak not, be gone.
  BUCKINGHAM. No, not a syllable:
  And let us to the Tiger all to dinner;

    Have struck but thus much show of fire from Brutus.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  GLOUCESTER. Well urg'd, my Lord of Warwick; for, sweet  
    virgin exclaim in; which I held my duty speedily to acquaint you
         Trumpets sound. Enter TIMON, addressing himself
    Within the bond of marriage, tell me, Brutus,
                     106
    That we come short of our suppose so far
    My fancy to your eyes. When I consider
    Dishonour not your mothers; now attest
  CORNELIUS. [Aside] I do suspect you, madam;
    Bury with those that wore them, these base slaves,
    Of gallowglasses and stout kerns
    And look where Publius is come to fetch me.
    I lose myself; better I were not yours
  NESTOR. What is't?
  Lord Mayor, Aldermen, Lords and Ladies in the Dumb


    A thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger
  MRS. FORD. We'll try that; for I'll appoint my men to carry
    people have a special care of him; I would not have him miscarry
  BRUTUS. I talk of that that know it.
    If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee
    When I have chased all thy foes from hence,
    Are you not stronger than you were?

  CASSIO. Not tonight, good Iago. I have very poor and unhappy brains
    We pray with heart and soul, and all beside.
    man in his humour.
  NERISSA. You need not fear, lady, the having any of these lords;
    Chickens, the way which they stoop'd eagles; slaves,
    And I'll withdraw me and my bloody power;
    And points at them for his. What, is this so?
    the traveller doth of Venice:
  JULIA. Now, by my modesty, a goodly broker!

  Of their sweet deaths, are sweetest odours made:  
    Poor sacrifices of our enmity!
  LUCENTIO. Hear'st thou, Biondello?
    Now, trust me, 'tis an office of great worth,
  FALSTAFF. Good maid, then.
        That o'er the green corn-field did pass
    Rejoic'd deliverance more. Blest pray you be,
    That no man shall have private conference,
    He seek the life of any citizen,
    If God will be avenged for the deed,
    Your Highness with an heir!
  CORIOLANUS. Wife, mother, child, I know not. My affairs
    Lent us good Siward and ten thousand men;

    Only for saying he would make his son
  SECOND CITIZEN. Worthy Menenius Agrippa; one that hath always lov'd
    How much an ill word may empoison liking.

  MENELAUS. How do you? How do you?                              Exit
  I might as yet have been a spreading flower,
    And good from bad find no partition.
    What air's from home. Haply this life is best,
  EGEUS, father to Hermia
    Before that England give the French the foil.

    Nor hold the sceptre in his childish fist,
    Rotten humidity; below thy sister's orb
  PISTOL. These be good humours, indeed! Shall packhorses,
    If my sight fail not,
                    Re-enter Desdemona and Emilia.
Another street.
    The hands of Romans!
    Go quick away-the story of my life,
    Here is my bed; sleep give thee all his rest!
  Fal. You lie, ye rogue! 'Tis going to the King's tavern.
    At war 'twixt will and will not.
    This sudden stab of rancour I misdoubt;
  Kent. Hail to thee, noble master!
    'I am yours for ever.'
    And no man else hath honor by his death.
  STEPHANO. Drink, servant-monster, when I bid thee; thy
        Thou for whom Jove would swear
                                   [Lays his hand on his sword.]
    As if a man were author of himself

    No beast so fierce but knows some touch of pity.
  Dog. One word more, honest neighbours. I pray you watch about
    But thy unkindness shall his death draw out
  DIOMEDES. He is my prize. I will not look upon.  
  QUEEN MARGARET. O Ned, sweet Ned, speak to thy mother, boy!
  PISTOL. Die and be damn'd! and figo for thy friendship!
    And, when the lion fawns upon the lamb,
  Ham. There's another. Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer?
    And plant this thorn, this canker, Bolingbroke?
  LE BEAU. You must, if you stay here; for here is the place
    with her father?  
  NYM. Will you shog off? I would have you solus.
    Would I not have; but nature should bring forth,
    And hold fair friendship with his Majesty.

    I shall digest it.

  SUFFOLK. Cease, gentle Queen, these execrations,
    And then run mad indeed, stark mad; for all
  PERDITA. I see the play so lies
  SHALLOW. By cock and pie, sir, you shall not away to-night.
    Me shall you find ready and willing
    His taken labours bid him me forgive;
    A prince called Hector-Priam is his father-
  LONGAVILLE. Berowne is like an envious sneaping frost
    The maid is fair, o' th' youngest for a bride,
  FIRST GUARD. What work is here! Charmian, is this well done?
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. That trick of state  
    My mercy dried their water-flowing tears;
  Edm. Yours in the ranks of death!                        Exit.
    Armies of pestilence; and they shall strike
    God knows, in torment and in agony.
    cramp.
    Say that some lady, as perhaps there is,
  RODERIGO. I cannot believe that in her; she's full of most blest
    To one or two of these!
    Is your displeasure with the King.
    will bring these two moles, these blind ones, aboard him. If he
  FIRST SOLDIER.  [Reads]  'Dian, the Count's a fool, and full of

    Unbind my sons, reverse the doom of death,
    Which oft infects the wisest. These, my lord,

    To stop the rumour and allay those tongues
    And to repair my honour lost for him
    What! did my brother Henry spend his youth,
    So, now I have mine own again, be gone.

    What ransom must I pay before I pass?
  Ham. Never make known what you have seen to-night.
    From Athens is her house remote seven leagues-
    Stand by and mark the manner of his teaching.
  Urs. I know you by the waggling of your head.
  MALVOLIO. Not yet old enough for a man, nor young enough for a boy;
    Their counsels and their cares, digest things rightly
  Prince. Nothing but a Colossus can do thee that friendship.
  Pedro. Come, shall we hear this music?
  OLIVIA. If it be aught to the old tune, my lord,
  PRINCE. A beggar, brother?
    Thou tell'st me there is murder in mine eye.
ANGELO. Saving your merry humour, here's the note
    I was confederate with the Romans. So
    I'll hear his confessions justify;
        Orpheus with his lute made trees,
    have good inspirations; therefore the lott'ry that he hath
    Who then, affrighted with their bloody looks,
    Now judge what cause had Titus to revenge
  TRANIO. Master, it is no time to chide you now;
    It is because no one should sway but he;
    Let York be Regent; I will yield to him.
    Unclaim'd of any man. But who comes here?
    To fight with Glendower and his complices.

    being in heaven. Take away the fool, gentlemen.
    What heart receives from hence a conquering part,
  Osw. I never gave him any.
    Improvident soldiers! Had your watch been good  
    of you.
          Enter ANTONY, with a MESSENGER and attendants
    Loyal and neutral, in a moment? No man.
    Then, York, be still awhile, till time do serve;
  How careful was I when I took my way,
    Ah, sir, there's many a Greek and Troyan dead,
    your distemper in this kind for the wealth of Windsor
    Away, my disposition, and possess me
  YORK. The deadly-handed Clifford slew my steed;
    Which are the movers of a languishing death,
    prove a notable argument.
  HORTENSIO. Tush, Gremio! Though it pass your patience and mine to
CYMBELINE'S palace. An ante-chamber adjoining IMOGEN'S apartments
    Thy name in arms were now as great as mine!
  VIOLA. Make me a willow cabin at your gate,
    My heart, sweet boy, shall be thy sepulchre,
    To make my master out of love with thee.                Exit
    at the moated grange, resides this dejected Mariana. At that
    Nay, it perchance will sparkle in your eyes,
    But first, to try her skill,
    As to throw out our eyes for brave Othello,
  TRINCULO. By this good light, this is a very shallow
  Of the wide world, dreaming on things to come,
  IAGO. I told him what I thought, and told no more
  Rom. Yet 'banished'? Hang up philosophy!
  And make a common of my serious hours.
  CRESSIDA. Good morrow, uncle Pandarus.
    I'll play the penitent to you; but mine honesty
  CHIEF JUSTICE. He hath.
    [To FLAVIUS] Come hither. Pray you,
  MRS. PAGE. Good George, be not angry. I knew of your
  EMILIA. A halter pardon him! And hell gnaw his bones!
    And be you silent and attentive too,
    So every bondman in his own hand bears
         great loss. Re-enter CHARLES, ALENCON, and REIGNIER
    Dost thou in conscience think- tell me, Emilia-
    For you must be our huswife.  
    Make not your thoughts your prisons. No, dear Queen;
    This is the law, and this Duke Humphrey's doom.
  SUFFOLK. Lord Cardinal, the King's further pleasure is-
  Doug. I fear thou art another counterfeit;
    great that could restore this cripple to his legs again?
    Which you on all estates will execute
    Boys, bid him welcome.

    Speak how I fell. I have done; and God forgive me!
ACT II. SCENE I.
    Faintly besiege us one hour in a month.
    Enter MESSENGER and TALBOT.
    We'll hear him what he says. Whence are you?
    request be fifty talents.
    Ay, and, by heaven, one that will do the deed,
    Lizard's leg and howlet's wing,
  MRS. OVERDONE. Good my lord, be good to me; your honour is
ACT III. SCENE 1.
    Goes all decorum.
      Do but behold the tears that swell in me,
    Of hostile paces. Those opposed eyes
  IAGO. Sir, he is rash and very sudden in choler, and haply may
    continual practice. I shall win at the odds. But thou wouldst not

    Your shoes is not so good. 'Tis a good silling, I warrant you, or

    Break the neck of the wax, and every one give ear.
    Because I love him, I must pity him.
    And let all sleep, while to my shame I see
    To talk of your good father. In his youth
    Which way they went.
    What has he done to Rome that's worthy death?
  VARRO'S SERVANT. How dost, fool?
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Windy attorneys to their client woes,
  For slander's mark was ever yet the fair,
    O cunning, how I got it!- nay, some marks
    There should be one amongst 'em, by his person,
  SUFFOLK. Now, sirs, have you dispatch'd this thing?
  MISTRESS OVERDONE, a bawd
  Nurse. The son and heir of old Tiberio.
    Her hair is auburn, mine is perfect yellow;
  CROMWELL. Good sir, have patience.

  WIFE. A plum tree, master.
    These ruin'd pillars, out of pity, taken
    And not a man of them shall have the grace,
    this match: here's my ring.
  BUSHY. Why have you not proclaim'd Northumberland
  And that this body, consecrate to thee,
    The Roman Emperor greets you all by me;
  FALSTAFF. To wake a wolf is as bad as smell a fox.
             I am sent with broom before,
Enter VALENTINE and SPEED
    that I have commanded thee. The third is that thou wilt be a
    Which by the right and virtue of my place
    He that a fool doth very wisely hit
    Come all to help him, and so stop the air
    'Tis monstrous. Iago, who began't?
  PAGE. No, my good lord, it is more pleasing stuff.
  PROVOST. As I do think, to-morrow.
    Protector.
    Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
    presently denied him rivality, would not let him partake in the
    You are like to have a thin and slender pittance.
                          SCENE 2.
  Fool. Ha, ha! look! he wears cruel garters. Horses are tied by the
  CLOWN. Marry, sir, they praise me and make an ass of me. Now my
    farm to buy my crown. I know no ways to mince it in love, but
    straight. [Nym draws] O well-a-day, Lady, if he be not drawn! Now
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    He finds himself beholding to us all.
    To hold my stirrup nor to take my horse!
  POSTHUMUS. Should we be taking leave
    But what art thou, whose heavy looks foretell
                                                       BERTRAM.'
    Were I the Moor, I would not be Iago.
    Of Caesar seek your honour, with your safety. O!
  Ham. Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but not
    Come not before him.
    capable creature.
    Is in the very May-morn of his youth,


    Than a delightful measure or a dance;
    How would he look to see his work, so noble,
    Of disobedience, or unduteous title,
    With course disturb'd even thy confining shores,
    The action of their bodies from their souls;
  IAGO. Ay, what of that?
  Lear. What art thou?
    you set a work, and how ill requited! Why should our endeavour be
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Were it my cue to fight, I should have known it
    And here much Orlando!
  GLOUCESTER. I thought, at least, he would have said the King;
    We will bestow ourselves.- [To Ophelia] Read on this book,
  LORENZO. I know the hand; in faith, 'tis a fair hand,
    Now blessed be the hour, by night or day,
    When I have said, cry 'Woe!'- the Queen, the Queen,
    To breathe the abundant dolour of the heart.
    Not like a corse; or if- not to be buried,
    knew would flout her. 'I measure him,' says she, 'by my own
    A thousand thanks, and pray 'em take their pleasures.
  Lear. Ay, so I think.
  FALSTAFF. Go to; peace, Mouldy; you shall go. Mouldy, it is time
    For the close night doth play the runaway,
    Yet could I bear that too, well, very well;
    [Sings.]   "And let me the canakin clink, clink;
  THERSITES. Ha!
  GREMIO
    I drink to the general joy o' the whole table,
    In all your business and necessities.
    canst use the time well, if the time use thee well. Good parts in  
    Sir, shall I to this lady?
  A thousand favours from a maund she drew  
  POLIXENES. I pray thee, good Camillo, be no more importunate: 'tis

    Of our rank feud; but the just gods gainsay
    And twenty more such names and men as these,
    should.
    Thou that giv'st whores indulgences to sin.
  APEMANTUS. Shouldst have kept one to thyself, for I mean to give
                    Servants following with wine.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Ye turn me into nothing. Woe upon ye,  
  Pol. At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.
    with you, if the time were convenient.  
                          Enter MARIA
    But see! while idly I stood looking on,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  BRAKENBURY. No, madam, no. I may not leave it so;
   'celsa senis' despair not.
    Shakes all our buds from growing.
  SICINIUS. Sir, the people
  WILLIAM. Pulcher.

    the mother of fools. I have brought Count Claudio, whom you sent
  CAIUS. Diable! Jack Rugby-mine Host de Jarteer-have I
    If I be traitor or unjustly fight!

  PROSPERO. No, wench; it eats and sleeps and hath such senses
    I fear the trust Othello puts him in

  When beauty lived and died as flowers do now,
  LEONTES. Why, what need we  
    She came adorned hither like sweet May,
    The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
    With shining checker'd slough, doth sting a child

    unpay the villainy you have done with her; the one you may do
    And when the hardiest warriors did retire,
  FALSTAFF. Ha! a bastard son of the King's? And art thou not Poins
    Extended or contracted all proportions
    Be henceforth treacherous! Damn'd Pisanio
  AGUECHEEK. Good Mistress Accost, I desire better acquaintance.
    His deeds with doing them, and is content
  MESSENGER. Environed he was with many foes,
  Or I shall live your epitaph to make,
    The general suit of Rome; never admitted
    I'll be thy master. Walk with me; speak freely.
    Further I say, and further will maintain
    anon.
    I am soldier to, and will abide it with
  DOCTOR. Well, well, well-
    And never did desire to see thee more.
    And comfort me with cold. I do not ask you much;
    With eyes severe and beard of formal cut,
    Where is our usual manager of mirth?
  CHAMBERLAIN. Well said, Lord Sandys;
    Hearing us praise our loves of Italy
  OLIVIA. What do you say, Cesario? Good my lord-
    The common file- a plague! tribunes for them!
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. What good is cover'd with the face of
TITUS LARTIUS, having set a guard upon Corioli, going with drum and trumpet
      order in their changes, and holding the garland over
    When sorrows come, they come not single spies.
  LADY GREY. My mind will never grant what I perceive
    They have left their viands behind; for we have stomachs.
    And make a dark night too of half the day-
    you of young Master Launcelot?
                     98
    sees thee not.
  Edm. Yet Edmund was belov'd.
  LEPIDUS. Here's more news.
    And rap me well, or I'll knock your knave's pate.
    I am no orator, as Brutus is;
  IMOGEN. Talk thy tongue weary- speak.
    Had I more name for badness.
  If any ship put out, then straight away.
  So him I lose through my unkind abuse.
  SIR THOMAS GARGRAVE
    His lordship knows me well and loves me well.
  PAGE. Well, what remedy? Fenton, heaven give thee joy!
    Repair to th' Senate House.

    I think he hath a very fair warning.
  PAINTER. So, so, my lord.
    For shape, for bearing, argument, and valour,
    Of forg'd rebellion with a seal divine,
  QUEEN. And so say I.
  KATHERINA. Yours, if you talk of tales; and so farewell.
    Did never float upon the swelling tide
    This is his lordship's man.
  HOSTESS of the Boar's Head, Eastcheap; formerly Mrs. Quickly, now
    This is th' imposthume of much wealth and peace,
  GONZALO. Heavens keep him from these beasts!
  IAGO. [Aside to Roderigo.] Away, I say; go out and cry a mutiny.
  OTHELLO. Why, how should she be murther'd?
     But yet thou art my flesh, my blood, my daughter;
    We'll rest us, Hermia, if you think it good,
    With them the two brave bears, Warwick and Montague,
  PORTIA.. Go in, Nerissa;
    come apace to the King: there is more good toward you
    discretion, and let us listen to the Moon.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  ARTHUR. Have you the heart? When your head did but ache,


    Therefore farewell. I see thou knowest me not.
  SOOTHSAYER. The fingers of the pow'rs above do tune
    And by the merit of vile gold, dross, dust,
  FLUELLEN. Stand away, Captain Gower; I will give treason his
    Were gracious in the eyes of royal Rome,
  EVANS. Ay, and her father is make her a petter penny.
  COSTARD. I Pompey am-
    To slay the innocent? What is my offence?
  SHALLOW. I will wait on him, fair Mistress Anne!
    Our puissance into the hand of God,
    And blow them at the moon. O, 'tis most sweet
    Snatch at his master that doth tarre him on.
  Naming thy name, blesses an ill report.
    That such a thing bechanc'd would make me sad?
    running!
    Or roaring terrors; for defect of judgment
    To wall thee from the liberty of flight,
  Ham. How purpos'd, sir, I pray you?
    Out-
    If she do chide, 'tis not to have you gone,
    To hear from Rome. The Marchioness of Pembroke!
    cannot bring thee.
  CLEOPATRA. Say I would die.  
  Mer. Thou hast most kindly hit it.
    Here comes a man of comfort, whose advice
    Although in glorious titles he excel.

  BEROWNE. This, fellow. What wouldst?
  Bene. I will swear by it that you love me, and I will make him eat
    Let witchcraft join with beauty, lust with both;
    they lov'd; no sooner lov'd but they sigh'd; no sooner sigh'd but
    That was uprear'd to execution.
    is more than a youth is not for me; and he that is less than a
    Though I show'd sourly to him- once more offer'd
    To sheath his knife in us. He is attach'd;
  PRINCE HUMPHREY. I do not know, my lord.
    And may, for aught thou knowest, affected be.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    But I will delve one yard below their mines
  HORTENSIO. Mistress, what cheer?

    Now boast thee, death, in thy possession lies
                                      Exeunt PISTOL and BARDOLPH
  DUKE. Write from us to him, post-post-haste dispatch.
    Highness said even now I made you a duke; good my lord, do not
    be to the flight of my master.
     Hadst not been born than not t' have pleas'd me better.  
    cannot be denied what I have done by land.
    Like sapphire, pearl, and rich embroidery,

    He call'd them untaught knaves, unmannerly,

    Call not me slanderer! Thou and thine usurp
  ORLEANS. You are the better at proverbs by how much 'A fool's bolt
    them in honest taking-up, then they must stand upon security. I
  SECOND MURDERER. You are deceiv'd: your brother Gloucester
        CHAMBERLAIN
  Oph. What means your lordship?
    answer is I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say,
  TROILUS. And suddenly; where injury of chance  
    So let me find thee still. Take this same letter,
  Queen. Alas, look here, my lord!
    worship; and my suit is-
  PISANIO. On his command. He would not suffer me

  LAFEU. O, will you eat
  PROSPERO. Hey, Mountain, hey!
    That they take place when virtue's steely bones
  The fineness of the gold, and chargeful fashion,
  Fool. Nuncle Lear, nuncle Lear, tarry! Take the fool with thee.  
    from many objects, and, indeed, the sundry contemplation of my
  Claud. He is then a giant to an ape; but then is an ape a doctor to
Enter Othello and Emilia.
    And so should these, if I might have my will.
  VALENTINE. Please you, I'll write your ladyship another.
    That done, dissever your united strengths  
  IAGO. I have rubb'd this young quat almost to the sense,
    Inhabits here. Some heavenly power guide us
    So sweetly tastes, being the thing I am.
     To the forfended place?
                     77
    Her only fault, and that is faults enough,
    And have my thanks for all.           Exeunt, hearing ANTONY
    The Prince, Lord John and Duke of Lancaster.  
  PANDARUS. Who's there? What's the matter? Will you beat down the
    Why, love, I say! madam! sweetheart! Why, bride!

    Feed not thy sovereign's foe, my gentle earth,
    temperance. But leave we him to his events, with a prayer they
    Of Paphlagonia; the Thracian king, Adallas;
    To hold our safety up. I sent your Grace
  BRUTUS. I kiss thy hand, but not in flattery, Caesar,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
Enter two Sentinels-[first,] Francisco, [who paces up and down
    Tying her duty, beauty, wit, and fortunes
  DESDEMONA. I have it not about me.
    And thy sea-marge, sterile and rocky hard,
    Full often hath she gossip'd by my side;
  DOLABELLA,     "    "   "
  BUCKINGHAM. Ay, here they be that dare and will disturb thee.
                        Enter LORD HASTINGS
    Thinking that I mean him, but therein suits
    And buckle in a waist most fathomless
    Love sought is good, but given unsought is better.  
    They pray; grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS

            But never doubt I love.
  My master stays in the street.
    Whom in this conflict I unwares have kill'd.
    My fair Bianca, bid my father welcome,
    For though you lay here in this goodly chamber,
    And the red glow of scorn and proud disdain,
ACT III. SCENE I.
                Let her shine as gloriously
    Beat th' approaching Caesar. But if we fail,
    Burns with revenging fire, whose hopeful colours
    Whoever knocks!
    O, I have bought the mansion of a love,
                                                    Exit Lucius.
    As then the messenger-
    As dreams are made on; and our little life
    An age of discord and continual strife?
    As doth the raven o'er the infected house,
    Full of dear guiltiness; and therefore this,
    'Tis nine o'clock; our friends all stay for you;
    Unlike the ruler of a commonweal.
  YORK. Away, fond woman! were he twenty times my son
    Destroying them for wealth.
    To look that way thou wert.
  LOVEL. Come, come, dispatch; 'tis bootless to exclaim.
  CAESAR. No, sweet Octavia,
    And those but mean.
    Frighted each other? Why should he follow?
    But what see what see I? No Thisby do I see.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Hadst thou no poison mix'd, no sharp-ground knife,
                             Enter Clown.
    Of any kindred action like to this?
  SIR TOBY. Go, write it in a martial hand; be curst and brief; it is
  KATHERINE. De sin. Le col, de nick; le menton, de sin.
    For here's a young and sweating devil here
  CELIA. I pray you bear with me; I cannot go no further.
    The commons, like an angry hive of bees
Dramatis Personae
  Marg. To have no man come over me? Why, shall I always keep below
  Hor. How was this seal'd?
  CADE. [Aside] He lies, for I invented it myself- Go to, sirrah,
    That little cares for buying any thing.
  VOLUMNIA. Ay, and burn too.
and Beatrice (his Niece), with a Messenger.

    and, my fortunes against any lay worth naming, this crack of your  
    To make commotion, as full well he can,

  CLARENCE. No, no, my dream was lengthen'd after life.
    unseduc'd, you not making it appear otherwise, for your ill
  GLOUCESTER. My lord, there needs no such apology:
    not- look you, sir- show themselves, as we term it, his friends,
    Though Cassio did some little wrong to him,  
    wooden dagger; and they are both hang'd; and so would this be, if
    Have by my hands of life bereaved him.
    As shall become your Highness; where you may
    Nor airless dungeon, nor strong links of iron
    These growing feathers pluck'd from Caesar's wing
    A little riper and more lusty red
  TOUCHSTONE. A most wicked Sir Oliver, Audrey, a most vile Martext.
    I did imagine what would be her refuge.
         attendants; TITUS ANDRONICUS and Lucius
    I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
    Come, lady, die to live. This wedding day
    Tears then for babes; blows and revenge for me!
    And I my Percy's death ere thou report'st it.  
    The preyful Princess pierc'd and prick'd a pretty pleasing
    kickshaws, tell William cook.
    Seals a commission to a blank of danger;
    By her fine foot, straight leg, and quivering thigh,
    And to you all, good health!                             [Drinks]
    Your son-in-law is far more fair than black.
    in't to call thee knave, knight.
    Here will we sit and let the sounds of music
    To have him match'd; and, if you please to like
    Before I strike this bloody stroke, farewell.
  FREDERICK. Ay, Celia; we stay'd her for your sake,
    To stay the judgment o' th' divorce; for if
    Why did he marry Fulvia, and not love her?
  Poins. Why, we will set forth before or after them and appoint them
  Ber. In the same figure, like the King that's dead.  
    And from thy hated presence part I so;
  PRINCE JOHN. I will lay odds that, ere this year expire,
    And this is all.
  In thee thy summer ere thou be distilled:
    Peep'd harms that menac'd him-privily
    And hath abatements and delays as many  
  STEPHANO. Every man shift for all the rest, and let no man
  Sex. What else, fellow?
    Do now attend the Queen? Since they did plot
    discreetly as we can.  
    In the sweet pangs of it remember me;
   And, all-admiring, with an inward wish
    But get thee back, my soul is too much charged
    When that I say the city-woman bears
  CLIFFORD. King Henry, be thy title right or wrong,
    Whereof thy proud child, arrogant man, is puff'd,
  Abr. Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
    rheumatic, and talk'd of the Whore of Babylon.
    Of stern injustice and confused wrong.
             In remembrance of a shroud.
    prating? Let not thy discreet heart think it. Her eye must be
  Prince. I'll make it greater ere I part from thee,
    As my trust was; which had indeed no limit,
    England shall repent his folly, see his weakness, and admire our
    Dreamt of encounters 'twixt thyself and me-
    Why do we linger thus? I cannot rest
SECOND PART OF KING HENRY IV
  man, thou art thyself.
    Then, in the name of God and all these rights,  
    And ne'er throughout the year to church thou go'st,
  CHIRON. I care not, I, knew she and all the world:  
               Enter BASSANIO, LORENZO, and GRATIANO
                                             with their servants
  Edg. Very bootless.

    that are young; you do measure the heat of our livers with the


             Must cover thy sweet eyes.
  Whilst I at home starve for a merry look.
    Than lying, vainness, babbling drunkenness,
  JAQUES. It is my only suit,
    Look who comes here! a grave unto a soul;
    I would not be so sick though for his place.
  ROSALIND. Did your brother tell you how I counterfeited to swoon
  Prince. Why, how couldst thou know these men in Kendal green when
      Enter Edmund, with his rapier drawn, Gloucester, Cornwall,
    I'll follow instantly.
    mistress' house merrily and go away sadly. The reason of this?
    Citing my worthless praise. O, pardon me!
    Launcelot, thou art mine own flesh and blood. Lord worshipp'd
  WOLSEY. What say they?
  Glend. I can speak English, lord, as well as you;
    In these to nature she's immediate heir;
    The best I had, a princess wrought it me-
  SOMERSET. That all your interest in those territories
  FIRST CITIZEN. For mine own part,
     Who, having been prais'd for bluntness, doth affect
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  Right, sir; I'll tell you when,
    The messengers of Venice stay the meat.
    Whose present grace to present slaves and servants
    Could man so blench?
  MRS. PAGE. Peace.
    How does my father? Gentles, methinks you frown;
    This be not cherish'd.
  Cap. Go to, go to!
  Claud. What, courage, man! What though care kill'd a cat, thou hast
    By your leave, hostess.                              Exeunt.
    But such a day to-morrow as to-day,
  Pedro. Your hand, Leonato. We will go together.
  JULIA.  [Aside]  That such an ass should owe them.
  Pedro. Wilt thou make a trust a transgression? The transgression is
    hir'd; but I, his brother, gain nothing under him but growth; for
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    No; many a pound of mine own proper store,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Where France?
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Peace, peace, forbear;
  Con. I will owe thee an answer for that; and now forward with thy
    His war for Britain.
    For I have sworn thee fair: more perjured I,

    And beat our watch and rob our passengers,
  SHYLOCK, a rich Jew
    You seem to me as Dian in her orb,
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. But she, your subject, loathes such
     Should many people, under two commands,
  SPEED. 'Item: She can knit.'
    To keep thee from the tempest of the field.
  In me thou seest the glowing of such fire,
    To wear a heart so white. [Knocking within.] I hear knocking
    So at his sight away his fellows fly;
  MARIANA. No, my lord.
  Pedro. In faith, lady, you have a merry heart.
  Alb. Produce their bodies, be they alive or dead.

    Which by the sign thereof was termed so.
    To free King Henry from imprisonment,
    It could not else be I should prove so base
  BOY. Mine host Pistol, you must come to my master; and your
  SEBASTIAN. Do so: to ebb,
    To draw upon an exile! O brave sir!
    To time and mortal custom. Yet my heart
    To punish this offence in other faults.
    Go waken Juliet; go and trim her up.
  LUCETTA. Well of his wealth; but of himself, so so.
  KING HENRY. Send for him, good uncle.
    Alas, it cried, "Give me some drink, Titinius,"
    Nor from mine own weak merits will I draw
    your town, and things call'd whips?
    My grief lies onward and my joy behind.
     Upon the crown o' th' cliff what thing was that
    That which I durst not speak. His present gift
    Upon mine honour, for a silken point
    Of leigers for her sweet; and which she after,
  ANGELO. Maiden, no remedy.
    things go.  

    My praises made thee first a soldier, so,
         'One fair daughter, and no more,
    coin his nose, let them coin his cheeks. I'll not pay a denier.
    shall find it a great charge; and to be up early and down
    His guard have brought him thither.
                       Enter ENOBARBUS
    Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself,
    now applies it to a fool. Vent my folly! I am afraid this great
  Claud. Not to be married,
    Lest he should help his father.
    and all his ancestors, that come after him, may: they may
  MOTH. Horns.
  BEROWNE. There is five in the first show.
    Left his to th' worthiest; so his successor

    As will disperse itself through all the veins
  LAUNCELOT. To him, father.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Some twenty years.
    O, make a league with me, till I have pleas'd
    Yet am I Suffolk and the Cardinal's broker.
    Expecting absent friends. As thou lov'st her,
    The more and less came in with cap and knee;
    I know your back will bear a duchess. Say,
    And let it be mine honour, good my lord,
  SUFFOLK. Who dares cross 'em,
    And ask the Lady Bona for thy queen.  
  PETER, his man
                                      [He gives them the arrows]
    With purpose to relieve and follow them-
  BATES. I do not desire he should answer for me, and yet I determine
  OTHELLO. That handkerchief which I so loved and gave thee
  NORFOLK. 'Twixt Guynes and Arde-
    For, if I should as lion come in strife
    Lest it discomfort us. Lucilius, come,
  Ant. At a word, I am not.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Where America, the Indies?
    Whiles I in this affair do thee employ,
SCENE 3
  FALSTAFF. What made me love thee? Let that persuade thee
    loose.
  DULL. [Aside] If a talent be a claw, look how he claws him with a

    Degrees, observances, customs and laws,
    As he could make me with his eye, or care
    I would not from thee.
  MENENIUS. Come, enough.
    Did I put Henry from his native right?
  SPEED. Why didst not tell me sooner? Pox of your love letters!
  DESDEMONA.                         Why, sweet Othello?
    Conjectural marriages, making parties strong,
  VIOLA. My duty, madam, and most humble service.

    Still seem as does the King's.
  WARWICK. Then, for his mind, be Edward England's king;
  DUKE. There is no woman's sides
  Ham. Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish. I eat the air,
    two hours together. I have scap'd by miracle. I am eight times
  LEONTES. he met there? his train? Camillo with him?
SEMPRONIUS' house
  MARCUS. Alas, poor heart, that kiss is comfortless
    Plaster you o'er, that you may be abhorr'd
    These eyes, that now are dimm'd with death's black veil,  
    enamour'd on Hero. I pray you dissuade him from her; she is no
    Than gain which darkens him.
    The very wings of reason to his heels
    Been what he knew himself, it had gone well.
  ANTONY. And thither will I straight to visit him.
                                                  [Stabbing him]
    And say which grain will grow and which will not,
    And quoted joint by joint.
  ELINOR. His mother shames him so, poor boy, he weeps.
    As closely to conceal what we impart.
  LAUNCE. Ay, and what I do too; look thee, I'll but lean, and my
    have no wings to fly from God: war is His beadle, war is His
    The dismal'st day is this that e'er I saw,
                     6  
    More bitterly could I expostulate,
  PETRUCHIO. Nay, I will win my wager better yet,

    Curs'd be I that did so! All the charms
  TROILUS. I will be patient; outwardly I will.
    Construe the times to their necessities,


  BUCKINGHAM. Well then, no more but this: go, gentle
    Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell.
  AGUECHEEK. Marry, will I, sir; and for that I promis'd you, I'll be
    Being counted falsehood shall, as I express it,

  ARVIRAGUS. We'll not be long away.
    Most worthy brother England; fairly met!
  TITANIA. How came these things to pass?
                 Enter FORD disguised
    fool; and, as aforesaid, Patroclus is a fool.
    How fares our gracious lady?
    And hereabouts 'a dwells, which late I noted
    What hath proceeded worthy note today.
    Worthy Sebastian? O, what might! No more!
  CASSIUS. The morning comes upon 's. We'll leave you, Brutus,
    The night is long that never finds the day.          Exeunt.
             For the rain it raineth every day.
  OTHELLO. By heaven, I would most gladly have forgot it.
  CASSIO.                                    To who?
    Praise him that gat thee, she that gave thee suck;
  ROSALIND. No; that same wicked bastard of Venus, that was begot of
    But how to make ye suddenly an answer,
    Provokes this deluge most unnatural.
  DUKE. How can that be?  
    Will make what's homely savoury; weariness
    And some ten voices cried 'God save King Richard!'  
    And I will take thy word. Yet, if thou swear'st,

    Hence, get thee gone, and follow me no more.
    And she shall scant show well that now seems best.
    By breaking through the foul and ugly mists
  GLOUCESTER. Nay, he is dead, and slain by Edward's hands.
    In murders and in outrage boldly here;
Enter ANTONIO and SEBASTIAN
    To stop effusion of our Christian blood
    And questioned'st every sail; if he should write,
  ORSINO, Duke of Illyria
  CASSIO. Dost thou hear, my honest friend?
    Than their bare hands.
  BUCKINGHAM. Upon the stroke of ten.
         So disguise shall, by th' disguised,
  PORTIA. Do you confess the bond?

    That I must bear a part.

  KING RICHARD. Why, then, by God-
    He could have temporiz'd.
    Hath all his ventures fail'd? What, not one hit?
  Upon the farthest earth removed from thee,
  A threadbare juggler, and a fortune-teller,
  TALBOT. But yet, before we go, let's not forget
    A holy prophetess new risen up,
  ULYSSES. Is that a wonder?
    Corrupt with virtuous season. Can it be
    I saw him hold acquaintance with the waves
Warkworth. Before NORTHUMBERLAND'S Castle

    divers persons. I'll tell you who Time ambles withal, who Time
    Or shall I send my daughter Kate to you?
    Falstaff, kind Jack Falstaff, true Jack Falstaff, valiant Jack
    Is all the grace I beg.
    And there I see such black and grained spots

    Can lift your blood up with persuasion.
  For what care I who calls me well or ill,  
    That what you cannot as you would achieve,  
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I would I were senseless, sir, that I
  LEONTES. I know't too well.
    The way twice o'er.
  ISABELLA. Hark how I'll bribe you; good my lord, turn back.

  CLOTEN. 'Tis certain she is fled.

    While I stand by and weep to hear him speak.
    Yet notwithstanding, being incens'd, he is flint;
  FORD. I will seek out Falstaff.
    And Richard falls in height of all his pride.
    My cousin Bolingbroke ascends my throne'-
  THESEUS, Duke of Athens
Before PROSPERO'S cell
  Rom. Ay, mine own fortune in my misery.

     are going, to a most festinate preparation. We are bound to the
  He met me on the mart, and that I beat him,
  DUKE. I think the boy hath grace in him; he blushes.  
     The fitchew nor the soiled horse goes to't
    Deliver him to safety; and return,
    perfum'd with civet.
  Lear. Ha! say'st thou so?
  LIEUTENANT. But Jove was never slain, as thou shalt be.
    amiable encounter.
    fellow of thy hands.
    Was heavy on me. Thou art so far before,
  BOY. Encore qu'il est contre son jurement de pardonner aucun
    If you do fight against your country's foes,
  Or whether revolution be the same.  
    I'll not bear mine own flesh so far afoot again for all the coin
  SIWARD. Why then, God's soldier be he!
    not together; she's a good sign, but I have seen small reflection
    Which I can scarcely bear.
  Nurse. Romeo can,
  But love, for love, thus shall excuse my jade,
    And surer bind this knot of amity,  
    Hold me a foe-
  That by this sympathized one day's error
  TIMON. May you a better feast never behold,
    hostess- he is very sick, and would to bed. Good Bardolph, put
                                            LEONATUS POSTHUMUS.'
THE END
  GUIDERIUS. Pray you fetch him hither.
    But to be paddling palms and pinching fingers,
    As from my death-bed, thy last living leave.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    And how my men will stay themselves from laughter
  JAQUES. [Discovering himself] Proceed, proceed; I'll give her.

    To see fair Padua, nursery of arts,
                               Exeunt the soldiers of SATURNINUS

    Jove sometime went disguis'd, and why not I?
    Which three till now, never kept seat in one.
    Let's do it after the high Roman fashion,
    As the dog Jew did utter in the streets.
    That, after this strange starting from your orbs,
    Yea, scandalous to the world.
    Rome shall record; and when I do forget
    If you do censure me by what you were,
    That not a horse is half the half of himself.
    Be season'd with such viands'? You will answer
  LADY. I could weep, madam, would it do you good.
    Knowing that with the shadow of his wings
  KING HENRY. What men have you lost, Fluellen!
  HASTINGS. Good faith, and when I met this holy man,
    To see the wonders of the world abroad,
    And heaven's artillery thunder in the skies?
    By your power legatine within this kingdom,
    Than what he chooses.  
    In parcels as I did, would have gone near
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  CHORUS. Now entertain conjecture of a time
    Shall blow ten thousand souls to heaven or hell;
  QUINTUS. He that would vouch it in any place but here.
    hogshead. And then for the land service- to see how the bear tore
    Will well become the seat of majesty

Another part of the forest
  BELARIUS. Being scarce made up,
    Was rightful heir unto the English crown,
  SPEED. 'Here follow her vices.'
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    To ransom my two nephews from their death;
             So shall all the couples three
    O, let me in my present wildness die,
  When swift extremity can seem but slow?
     Or cease your quest of love?
    So mightily betray'd! Yet at the first
ABBESS. Be patient; for I will not let him stir
  CAESAR. I could well forbear't.
    That your free undertaking cannot miss
  LUCIO. Ay, why not? Grace is grace, despite of all controversy; as,
    If I should pay you for't as 'tis extoll'd,
  Leon. Indeed he looks younger than he did, by the loss of a beard.  
  ANTONY. Moreover, he hath left you all his walks,
Before York
    And by my body's action teach my mind
    provided that I shall have much help from you. How had you been
    and starings, pribbles and prabbles?  
  CLOWN. [Sings] His eyes do show his days are almost done.
  DUKE. We did believe no less.
    With hair up-staring-then like reeds, not hair-
    I'll make her render up her page to me.
    occasion to write for matter of grant, shall name your Highness
  SECOND SERVING-MAN. Do what ye dare, we are as resolute.
    Of what that want might ruin.

    unto it. I will none of you.
    The nimble-footed madcap Prince of Wales,
  PANDARUS. My niece is horribly in love with a thing you have, sweet
    Lends mettle to us all!                                Exit.
    Than to demand what 'tis. Your brother cannot live.
  PAROLLES. O!

  CASSIO. You advise me well.
  GLOUCESTER. If you thrive well, bring them to Baynard's
    my troth, it is no addition to her wit, nor no great argument of
    And that's a feeling disputation.
    I doubt he will be dead or ere I come.                     Exeunt
  FALSTAFF. A wassail candle, my lord- all tallow; if I did say of
SCENE II.
  For lately we were bound as you are now.
    Mistress Kate Keepdown was with child by him in the Duke's time;

    Be thou my witness that, against my will,
  CATESBY. Withdraw, my lord! I'll help you to a horse.
    Giddy in spirit, still gazing in a doubt
  FALSTAFF. Pistol!
    But tell me, keeper, will my nephew come?
    aunchient prerogatifes and laws of the wars is not kept: if you
     That ever penury, in contempt of man,
    At your request a little from himself.
    A day's work in him. What shalt thou expect
    As next the King he was successive heir-
    It wearies me; you say it wearies you;
    guiltiness of my mind, the sudden surprise of my powers,
    And then is heard no more. It is a tale
    If not that, I am Queen, you bow like subjects,
    To orderly soliciting, and be friended
  SILENCE. We shall all follow, cousin.
    With resolution whereso'er I meet thee-
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  DIANA. What some'er he is,
    Or, rather, do I not in plainest truth

      joy and favour to you;
    thine own hands take away her life; I shall give thee opportunity
    Convey'd himself as th' heir to th' Lady Lingare,
  APEMANTUS. Faith, for the worst is filthy, and would not hold
  Samp. Draw, if you be men. Gregory, remember thy swashing blow.
  CITIZEN. Hear us, great kings: vouchsafe awhile to stay,
  KATHARINE. Ay, and a shrewd unhappy gallows too.
  MENENIUS. Here comes the clusters.
    backward with the horn on his head?
  Mar. Holla, Bernardo!
  KING. Humphrey, my son of Gloucester,

    A tomb, wherein his corpse shall be interr'd;
    Than death and honour. Let's to supper, come,
  CASSIO. Madam, I'll take my leave.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. What's his name and birth?
  If not, I'll leave him to the officer.
    On my free will. My lord, Mark Antony,
    Bring action hither; this cannot go to war.
  To make me give the lie to my true sight,
  GLOUCESTER. Winchester goose! I cry 'A rope, a rope!'
    Have utt'red truth; which if you seek to prove,
    of poverty; but how I should be your patient to follow your
  VIOLA. I beseech you, what manner of man is he?
  CLIFFORD. No cause!
  THURIO. Ay, sir, and done too, for this time.
    Be that thou hop'st to be; or what thou art
    And as he pluck'd his cursed steel away,
    At all times to your will conformable,
  AUDREY. God ye good ev'n, William.
    Prove that ever I dress myself handsome till thy return. Well,
    To greet the warriors. Sweet Helen, I must woo you
    His noble friends and fellows, whom to leave  
    We have, great Agamemnon, here in Troy
    Would have mourn'd longer) married with my uncle;  

The country near Dover.
    The tiger will be mild whiles she doth mourn;
    Me and thy crying self.
    Who in a moment even with the earth  
  SECOND CITIZEN. Amen, sir. To my poor unworthy notice,  
    Though my revenges were high bent upon him
  YORK. The Queen this day here holds her parliament,
Exit.
    Place barrels of pitch upon the fatal stake,
    Made emulous missions 'mongst the gods themselves,
    Therefore, come back.
    had but this fish painted, not a holiday fool there but
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

    Like a strange tongue, wherein, to gain the language,

    They have chose a consul that will from them take
    To weaken and discredit our exposure,  
    would not have things cool.                           Exeunt  
    Thou marvel'st at my words, but hold thee still:
    wring, brew, bake, scour, dress meat and drink, make the
  JAQUES. Sing it; 'tis no matter how it be in tune, so it make noise

  PISTOL. Under which king, Bezonian? Speak, or die.
    His comforts thrive, his trials well are spent.
  SERVANT. He hath songs for man or woman of all sizes; no milliner

    And hear me speak a word.

  VINCENTIO. Fair sir, and you my merry mistress,
    As mild and gentle as the cradle-babe
    And we with sober speed will follow you.
               Here shall he see
                              Exit running. [Attendants follow.]
    come anon to my lodging.                      Exit a SERVANT
    Mangle the work of nature, and deface
    What's Montague? it is nor hand, nor foot,
     You owe me no subscription. Then let fall  
    If not, the city being but of small defence,  
    before a subject, if not before the King; which stopp'd
  HELENA. But this exceeding posting day and night
    If his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or whensoever, provided
  ALENCON. Froissart, a countryman of ours, records
    And pardon, father, for I knew not thee.
    A look untender! If't be summer news,
    O, she is lame! Love's heralds should be thoughts,
    an he knock out either of your brains: 'a were as good crack a  
  BRUTUS. What means this shouting? I do fear the people
    Thou know'st not what; but take it for thy labour.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Which God revenge!
  PATROCLUS. Out, gall!
    Between the Duke of Gloucester and your brothers,
    And cherish factions. 'Tis inferr'd to us  
    And the wind brings it from the Capitol.
  Friar. Hear me a little;
    As I had made my meal, and parted
  Friar. All this amazement can I qualify,


                           Enter FLAMINIUS
  KING RICHARD. Twice for one step I'll groan, the way being short,  
                         Enter Ursula.
    I'll never pause again, never stand still,
    Like balls before me; I'll unhair thy head;
    Thou art a traitor and a miscreant,
  CADE. Ye shall have a hempen caudle then, and the help of hatchet.
  GLOUCESTER. As good!
    or comes of a very dull kindred.
    And certain stars shot madly from their spheres
  Edg. Give me your hand.
    And driven into despair an enemy's hope
  SUFFOLK. Come to the King, and tell him what miracle.
    For I attend here, but I'll see you soon.
    To find this practice out.
    Being with his presence glutted, gorg'd, and full.
    You shall, sir. Did you not of late days hear
    It warms the very sickness in my heart
    And I will have you and that fault withal.
  DIOMEDES. Nay, but do, then;
  Oph. I hope all will be well. We must be patient; but I cannot
    Another tell him of his hounds and horse,
  SHALLOW. Well conceited, Davy- about thy business, Davy.
    elder-gun, that a poor and a private displeasure can do against a
  Jul. Saints do not move, though grant for prayers' sake.
    There, take thy hire; and all the fiends of hell
                                                       [Retires]
A desert place. Thunder and lightning.
    Young Edward lives-think now what I would speak.
The King enters with his Power.  Alarum to the battle.  Then enter Douglas
  PINDARUS, servant to Cassius
    monster, a very monster in apparel, and not like a Christian
    They make in Italy; the borders maritime
    Wherein the toged consuls can propose
           And we cast away moan.
THE END
  FALSTAFF. So is all her sect; and they be once in a calm, they are

    But he's a tried and valiant soldier.

    When I first mov'd you.
  EVANS. Od's plessed will! I will not be absence at the grace.
    cuckolds.
    word honour? Air. A trim reckoning! Who hath it? He that died a
    Might but redeem the passage of your age!
    An onion will do well for such a shift,

    That nature must compel us to lament
        Midnight, assist our moan,
    The want that makes him lean. Who dares, who dares,
    Sword, I will hallow thee for this thy deed
    For he was more than over shoes in love.
    So vile a thing as Caesar? But, O grief,
  That having such a scope to show her pride,


  PANDARUS. But to prove to you that Helen loves him: she came and

  AGAMEMNON. Why will he not, upon our fair request,
    for his sake! or that I had any friend would be a man for my
    For aye austerity and single life.
    We are denied access unto his person,
    And look'd upon things precious as they were
    And so may you; for a light heart lives long.
    Still met the King, lov'd him next heav'n, obey'd him,
    Than is his father's, must embrace the fate


        Enter certain REAPERS, properly habited; they join
  SIMPLE., I thank your worship; I shall make my master glad
  GLOUCESTER. Your ships already are in readiness.
  HOSTESS. Well, you shall have it, though I pawn my gown.
    Us'd intercession to obtain a league,
  FIRST MURTHERER. Then stand with us.
    King'd of our fears, until our fears, resolv'd,
  Sirrah, if any ask you for your master,
    Ah, no, no, no, no, it is mine only son!
          Sound a sennet. Enter the KING, DUKE HUMPHREY,
  DIOMEDES. What, shall I come? The hour-
    Heaven is above all yet: there sits a Judge
  ANNE. Not I, sir; pray you keep on.
  HOSTESS. Will you have Doll Tearsheet meet you at supper?
    As Phaeton would whip you to the West
    respect-
    have her.
  2. Watch. How if they will not?

    All the conspirators, save only he,
    arms;
    unpeople the province with continency; sparrows must not build in
    And I will do it without fear or doubt,
    Acquitted by a true substantial form,
    And then the power of Scotland and of York
    And die in music. [Sings.] "Willow, willow, willow."
    Where every horse bears his commanding rein
  SICINIUS. Bid them home.
    Or from the all that are took something good
    Come, come, Thersites, help to trim my tent;
    Were all the wealth I have shut up in thee,
  OLD ATHENIAN. This fellow here, Lord Timon, this thy creature,
    Or have you read or heard, or could you think?
    And so, ere answer knows what question would,
  KING. Well, sit out; go home, Berowne; adieu.

    Our captain hath in every figure skill,
  HELENA. I thank you, and will stay upon your leisure.
    he wakes.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  Ver. Not a whit.
    This night he meaneth with a corded ladder
    For this play at this time is only in
    There are that dare; and I myself have ventur'd
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

    times a day, if not many days entirely drunk. We have very oft
THE THIRD PART OF KING HENRY THE SIXTH
  MRS. PAGE. Why, woman, your husband is in his old lunes
    To crown himself King and suppress the Prince.
    separation of their society, their encounters, though not
    This is a soldier's kiss. Rebukeable,

    Perchance she cannot meet him. That's not so.
  OTHELLO. O my fair warrior!
     For him attempting who was self-subdu'd;
  BRUTUS. Lucilius and Titinius, bid the commanders  
    Third son to the third Edward, King of England.
    And she shall be sole victoress, Caesar's Caesar.
  ROSALIND. I shall devise something; but, I pray you, commend my
    Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death.
    This throne, this Fortune, and this hill, methinks,
  CORIN. Fair sir, I pity her,
    dukedom. Good faith, this same young sober-blooded boy doth not
    Shall never find it more.
  CLOTEN. Not easily, I think.
    But lest you should not understand me well-
  Hor. Not from his mouth,
    The Roman ladies bring not comfort home

  CYMBELINE, King of Britain
     In the good man's distress! Seek, seek for him!
  ALCIBIADES. What is it, Timon?
  KING. She hath that ring of yours.
  MARIA. Name it.
  LEPIDUS. Happily, amen!
  SEBASTIAN. And so had mine.
  MRS. PAGE. Sir Hugh, my husband says my son profits
  DOCTOR. Even so?
    Hoist with his own petar; and 't shall go hard
    Thou wilt prove his. Take him to prison, officer;
  LUCIO. Why, how now, Claudio, whence comes this restraint?
    Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill.  
    The King my father wreck'd.
    Of nature's germaines tumble all together
  MACBETH. Your spirits shine through you. Within this hour at most
  Ben. Tut! you saw her fair, none else being by,
  Lady Percy, wife to Hotspur, and sister to Mortimer.
                                 Exeunt, bearing the dead bodies
    By my consent, we'll even let them alone.
             With hands as pale as milk;
  TITINIUS. O Cassius, Brutus gave the word too early,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  KATHERINA. Faith, as cold as can be.
    Blush, blush, thou lump of foul deformity,
    Why ask I that? My mangled body shows,
    Who cannot be new built, nor has no friends

    Here was a Caesar! When comes such another?
Enter MENENIUS to the WATCH on guard
    I'll fill your grave up. Stir; nay, come away.
    Or here, or elsewhere to the furthest verge  
    Yet, if my lord will marry- if you will, sir,
    Lend me thy hand, and I will give thee mine.
  LE BEAU. Neither his daughter, if we judge by manners;
    As I will fashion it, shall happily meet,
    Fortune fall into the fire? Though Nature hath given us wit to
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    And pay the debt I never promised,
    Shall more obey than to the edge of steel
    In graces, and in qualities of breeding;
    is, to bring Signior Benedick and the Lady Beatrice into a
    Now, if you are a maid, answer to this.


  MURTHERER. 'Tis Banquo's then.
    What you will have, I'll give, and willing too;
  HUBERT.  [Stamps]  Come forth.
    That I do brag thus; this your air of France
  Denies that saying. Sirrah, what say you?
    Therefore let our alliance be combined,
  Doth for a wife abhor. But her fair sister,
    But he that temper'd thee bade thee stand up,
    I hate him for he is a Christian;
    But (dost thou hear?) most bloody.
    Nor hold him up with hopes; I am not for him.
Enter at several doors DUKE, VARRIUS, LORDS; ANGELO, ESCALUS, Lucio,

  ALICE. Le foot, madame; et le count.
    'Here is good horse to hire,' let them signify under my sign
    Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
    Is empty on the back of Montague,
    Her vine, the merry cheerer of the heart,
  Claud. To make you answer truly to your name.
    It was a vision fair and fortunate.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

     Darnel, and all the idle weeds that grow
    Shows not till it be struck: our gentle flame
  QUICKLY. There is one Mistress Ford, sir-I pray, come a little
    The cause of our expedience to the Queen,
    No doubt the murd'rous knife was dull and blunt
    Caesar was ne'er so much your enemy
    exception; but yet, I protest, have dealt most directly in thy
  CLIFFORD. And from thy burgonet I'll rend thy bear
  CAITHNESS. Great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies.
  TRANIO. Why, then the maid is mine from all the world
    Tower.  
    And thus I took the vantage of those few-
    As little skill to fear as I have purpose
    Which break themselves in swearing!
    On me, my bargains, and my well-won thrift,
  KATHERINE. Que dit-il? que je suis semblable a les anges?
  I'll knock elsewhere, to see if they'll disdain me.
  Gon. That were the most if he should husband you.
    For parting my fair Pyramus and me!

    To which the Grecians are most prompt and pregnant;
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Reprove my allegation if you can,
  Prince. This oily rascal is known as well as Paul's. Go call him
    Poor market-folks that come to sell their corn.  

    And, if you may confess it, say withal
    To do I know not what; but it sufficeth
SCENE V.

  PETRUCHIO. Sir, here's the door; this is Lucentio's house;
    Since you do take it, love, so much at heart.
  SALISBURY. But William of Hatfield died without an heir.
    merchandise do sinfully miscarry upon the sea, the imputation of
    Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot
  HASTINGS. My lord, I hold my life as dear as yours,
    As he began, and not unknit himself
    Was ever woman in this humour won?
    the exchange.
  Laer. What part is that, my lord?
    To your free heart, I do return those talents,
  
    waterfly?
  TITUS. Out on thee, murderer, thou kill'st my heart!
    From every tree lop, bark, and part o' th' timber;
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  PAULINA. No longer shall you gaze on't, lest your fancy
    We all have strongly sworn to give him aid;
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    A recreant and most degenerate traitor;
    they ask'd one another the reason; no sooner knew the reason but
    suddenly died. Master Constable, let these men be bound and
                                                    Exit Brutus.
     thou follow him, thou must needs wear my coxcomb.- How now,
    To sit and witch me, as Ascanius did
    For now sits Expectation in the air,
  Bene. Shall I speak a word in your ear?
  SAY. Nothing but this: 'tis 'bona terra, mala gens.'
  AGRIPPA. Nay, but how dearly he adores Mark Antony!
  KING HENRY. O, let us yet be merciful!
  FALSTAFF. Come, I will go drink with you, but I cannot tarry
    That these great lords, and Margaret our Queen,
    And thence this slander as I think proceeds.
    May offer, but not hold.

    Dead art thou, dead! alack, my child is dead,
    assure thee, and almost with tears I speak it, there is not one
    Free from oppression or the stroke of war,
  IRAS. But how, but how? Give me particulars.
    try my patience.
                         Exit DIOMEDES; ULYSSES and TROILUS following
    And yet dark night strangles the traveling lamp.
    That creep like shadows by him, and do sigh
    Home-keeping youth have ever homely wits.
  TOUCHSTONE. Truly, and to cast away honesty upon a foul slut were
    dissolutely spent on Tuesday morning; got with swearing 'Lay by,'
    Look for no less than death.  

                          ARIEL'S SONG.
  ENOBARBUS. I will tell you.
    We come not by the way of accusation
  ANTONY. These quicksands, Lepidus,
    She is i' th' rear o' our birth.
    The law I bear no malice for my death:
    Can her contempt be answer'd?
    Have I not heard great ordnance in the field,
    A good soft pillow for that good white head  
    And learn to make a body of a limb.
  KATHERINA. Fie, fie! unknit that threatening unkind brow,

    Success or loss, what is or is not, serves
    Fainting, despair; despairing, yield thy breath!
  Laer. Alas, then she is drown'd?
    Then 'tis but reason that I be releas'd  
    Shall it not grieve thee dearer than thy death
                  Enter the KING and EXETER
  PETRUCHIO. The fouler fortune mine, and there an end.
    That has done worthy service.
     Enter a GOTH, leading AARON with his CHILD in his arms
    These are the whole contents; and, good my lord,
    Revel the night, rob, murder, and commit
    Till that a capable and wide revenge
    Appear and aid me in this enterprise!
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think,
    To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,

    I know not how a traitor.
    To the corruption of a blemish'd stock;
    Where one on his side fights, thousands will fly.
      Sound a flourish. Enter CHARLES THE DAUPHIN, ALENCON,

    She's punish'd for her truth, and undergoes,
    till his brains turn o' th' toe like a parish-top. What, wench!
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    With wit enough for thee.
    Thou com'st not, Caius, now for tribute; that
    And think they are my sons, are none of mine;
    Whilst bloody treason flourish'd over us.
    The Cardinal's malice and his potency
    great buyer of land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his
    The cause were not in being- part o' th' cause,
  PAROLLES. Under Mars, I.
     his goatish disposition to the charge of a star! My father
    No more do yours. Your virtues, gentle master,

    And much effuse of blood doth make me faint.
           the two young LEONATI, brothers to POSTHUMUS,  
    That strike beside us.
  IACHIMO. Sir- I thank her- that.
and LORD BARDOLPH
    Which are the children of an idle brain,
  Or monarchs' hands that lets not bounty fall
     Sir, this I hear: the King is come to his daughter,

    Since not to be avoided it fails on me.
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
                            Enter Othello.
  DERBY. I do beseech you, either not believe
    And I with him, and many moe with me,
  VALENTINE. Why, how know you that I am in love?
    The rogues slighted me into the river with as little remorse
    I'll swear I am a maid, and he knows not.
    That make her good? O, let her brother live!
  Cap. Nay, gentlemen, prepare not to be gone;
    Not being Fortune, he's but Fortune's knave,
  PROSPERO. Well demanded, wench!
  CAIUS. Jack Rugby!
  Lear. No, they cannot touch me for coming;
    here to-morrow. By my troth, Isabel, I lov'd thy brother. If the
  OTHELLO.                        It is even so.

    The ocean swells not so as Aaron storms.
  MARGERY JOURDAIN. Asmath,
    I would have put my wealth into donation,
    That if about this hour he make this way,
  Leon. I pray thee cease thy counsel,
    To this fair island and the territories,
    A strong faith to conceal it.
    Juliet, on Thursday early will I rouse ye.
    Speak in the order of his funeral.
    And the beholders of this frantic play,
    To men that understand you, words and weakness.
    'Tis a shrewd doubt, though it be but a dream.
 Exit
    Attend him here this morning.
  King. A very riband in the cap of youth-
    And in that very line, Harry, standest thou;
  RICHMOND. The sweetest sleep and fairest-boding dreams

  SOLDIER. Hadst thou done so,
    His guilt should be but idly posted over,
  LUCY. Too late comes rescue; he is ta'en or slain,
    Than thou wast worthy her.
    Know what they would.
  KING HENRY. No, Kate? I will tell thee in French, which I am sure
    Provide thee two proper palfreys, black as jet,
  FRENCH SOLDIER. O, pardonnez-moi!
                            Enter DAVY
  CRESSIDA. O Troilus! Troilus! [Embracing him]
                     Enter [Oswald the] Steward.
    Upon his bad life to make all this good,
    Fair Jessica shall be my torch-bearer.                Exeunt
  VALENTINE. How now, sirrah?

  VIOLA. There is a fair behaviour in thee, Captain;
    Of half that worth as those your swords, made rich
    No common wind, no customed event,
  CATESBY. He doth entreat your Grace, my noble lord,

     That makes ingrateful man!
    With wax I brought away, whose soft impression
    My native English, now I must forgo;
    Upon the brook that brawls along this wood!

    The waste is no whit lesser than thy land.
  ROSALIND. Peace, fool; he's not thy Ensman.
  ANTONY. Most sweet queen-
                                                          Exeunt
    As I have made ye one, lords, one remain;
  Fal. Though I could scape shot-free at London, I fear the shot
    In bootless prayer have they been held up,
    For which attempt the judges have pronounc'd
ACT_3|SC_9
     I can be patient, I can stay with Regan,
  SPEED. 'Item: She hath more hair than wit, and more faults
  KING RICHARD. Stanley, look to your wife; if she convey  
  And purest faith unhappily forsworn,
    I turn the trouble of my countenance
    And, Captain, you must needs be friends with him.
  SUFFOLK. Why, our authority is his consent,
  CITIZENS. We will be satisfied! Let us be satisfied!
         Than by self-offences weighing.
    To be unbent when thou hast ta'en thy stand,
    Thy hand is but a finger to my fist,
    To show my duty in your coronation,  

  WESTMORELAND. Pleaseth your Grace to answer them directly
    most sage damoiselle dat is en France.
    You are the musty chaff, and you are smelt
  A person representing HYMEN
    you shall tell me where in the forest you live. Will you go?
    Lest my remembrance suffer ill report;
    And pursy insolence shall break his wind
    In special business from his Holiness.

    Thee I'll chase hence, thou wolf in sheep's array.
    I hope you'll come to supper. you'll pay me all together?

    Except thou wilt except against my love.
    And come, Egeus; you shall go with me;
  And every humour hath his adjunct pleasure,
    (Though you do any thing) he thinks no ill.
    Merely through fear, that the strait pass was damm'd
     Put strength enough to't.
    And thence discover how with most advantage
  Hor. Most constantly.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    This is it that makes me bridle passion
1595
    The creatures that were mine, I say, or chang'd 'em,
  LUCETTA. That the contents will show.
    Means and attendants, and my loving greetings
  PHILARIO. Quite besides
  LORD CHIEF JUSTICE
  BOTTOM. I grant you, friends, if you should fright the ladies out
  CLOTEN. The south fog rot him!
  A CITIZEN of Antium  
   They fight. The King being in danger, enter Prince of Wales.
    The dauntless spirit of resolution.
  Lords, Heralds, Officers, Soldiers, Keeper, Messenger,
    think upon hellfire and Dives that lived in purple; for there he
  OTHELLO. Not Cassio kill'd! Then murther's out of tune,
    He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps. Say on; come to
    such dishes; they are not China dishes, but very good dishes.
  CAPHIS. Nay, good my lord-  
  KATHERINA. 'Tis passing good; I prithee let me have it.
    But issued from the progeny of kings;
    to all uncomeliness that I would have sworn his disposition
    see, two and thirty, a pip out?
  VIRGILIA. The sorrow that delivers us thus chang'd
    You to your beauteous blessings add a curse,
    Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb,
    Since first I saw yourself and Diomed

  'O father, what a hell of witchcraft lies
    Shall have the chinks.
  BRAKENBURY. What wouldst thou, fellow, and how cam'st
    And bid him come and banquet at thy house;
    were remotion, and thy defence absence. What beast couldst thou
            Re-enter Caesar and his Train.
    married her daughter.
  The first my thought, the other my desire,
    And so, with great imagination
    Whereon this month I have been hammering.
    The street should see as she walk'd overhead.
          Lend less than thou owest,

  TIMON. This gentleman of mine hath serv'd me long;.  
  BEROWNE. Come on, then; I will swear to study so,
    You stared upon me with ungentle looks.  
                         SCENE XI.
  rather, to prophesy like the parrot, 'Beware the rope's-end.'
    this sport to the upshot. Come by and by to my chamber.
  ORLEANS. He is simply the most active gentleman of France.
    [Sings.]   "Sing willow, willow, willow-"
  MOTH. Negligent student! learn her by heart.
    Susan and she (God rest all Christian souls!)
    When I came hither I was Lord High Constable
    To lay his gay comparisons apart,
    We shall be bless'd to do, if he remember
  QUICKLY. Truly, I thought there had been one number
    He will be found like Brutus, like himself.
    After he once fell in with Mistress Shore.

and PATIENCE, her woman
    King Henry's issue, Richmond, comforts thee.
  MENENIUS. You worthy Tribunes-
                        Enter CERES
  FLUELLEN. By your patience, Aunchient Pistol. Fortune is painted
    joy in him; even so much that joy could not show itself modest
  HORTENSIO. How now! what's the matter? My old friend Grumio and my

  The chain unfinish'd made me stay thus long.
         Cuckoo, cuckoo'- O word of fear,
    I know we shall have revelling to-night.
    Lo now my glory smear'd in dust and blood!
  CLAUDIO. Unhappily, even so.
  PETER. O God, have I overcome mine enemies in this presence? O
    For she is with me. No, when light-wing'd toys
    Tune my distresses and record my woes.
    Mayst smile at this. Thou shalt not choose but go;
    It cannot be but he was murd'red here:

  FALSTAFF. Well, sir.
    To do myself this reason and this right.

  DUKE, living in exile
  LADY. The Queen, madam,
  King. How bloodily the sun begins to peer
    so out of hope.
    Of Alcibiades th' approaches wild,
    But all are banish'd till their conversations
     The images of revolt and flying off!  
    She sweeps it through the court with troops of ladies,
    Why art thou yet so fair? Shall I believe
  SECOND SOLDIER. Hark!

    against that dog of as bad a kind, Achilles; and now is the cur,
    of life indeed. The better part of valour is discretion; in the
    quiet.
    Remain a pinch'd thing; yea, a very trick
    By Christ's dear blood shed for our grievous sins,
    And my integrity to heaven, is all
    At least ungentle, of the dreadful Neptune,
  ENOBARBUS. Humbly, sir, I thank you.                    Exeunt
  Or he his manage by th' well-doing steed.
    He is not emulous, as Achilles is.
    Hope of revenge shall hide our inward woe.
    How earnestly they knock! Pray you come in:

  DESDEMONA. I have heard it said so. O, these men, these men!

    And makes men mad.
    And choke their art. The merciless Macdonwald-
  PROTEUS. Have I not reason to prefer mine own?
    Or sell my title for a glorious grave.
  THIRD SERVANT. Under the canopy?
    shadow, and sigh till he come.
                     27
  BARDOLPH. Hear me, hear me what I say: he that strikes the first
    Humphrey of Gloucester, if thou canst accuse
    Farewell, my sovereign.
    How you stand minded in the weighty difference
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. on a band, but on a stronger thing,
    bookish, yet I can read waiting-gentlewoman in the scape. This
    hay, sweet hay, hath no fellow.
    I grant I am a woman, but withal
    Poor living corse, clos'd in a dead man's tomb!        Exit.

  CLOWN. [Sings] Alas, why is she so?
  QUEEN. [To PISANIO] Hark thee, a word.
  ARIEL. I told you, sir, they were red-hot with drinking;
    Did pocket up my letters, and with taunts
    therefore fire. Do thy duty, and have thy duty, for my master and
  I should kick, being kick'd; and being at that pass,

  IAGO. Why, but you are now well enough. How came you thus
                      Enter Horatio.
    of what having, breeding, and anything that is fitting to be
    Will come on very slowly. I am sorry,
    And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
    See, see the pining malady of France;
    But O, it presses to my memory
  CLOWN. Bonos dies, Sir Toby; for as the old hermit of Prague, that
          Sleepest or wakest thou, jolly shepherd?
  ENOBARBUS. [Aside] Mine honesty and I begin to square.
  Glou. The King is in high rage.

     Or he that makes his generation messes
  Fool. Nay, he reserv'd a blanket, else we had been all sham'd.
    Right noble is thy merit, well I wot.
    So rare a wond'red father and a wise
    name, honest gentleman?
  BASSANIO. Since I have your good leave to go away,
    And that will well confirm it.
    I would he had boarded me.
    For me to joy and weep their gain and loss;
    Impose me to what penance your invention
    This Cardinal's more haughty than the devil.
    Where didst thou see her? O unhappy girl!
    lady? He's fortified against any denial.  
  Clown. Mine, sir.
  SLENDER. In the county of Gloucester, Justice of Peace, and
    And, when he says he is, say that he dreams,
    image of a murther done in Vienna. Gonzago is the duke's name;
    Thus then, thou most renown'd: Caesar entreats
    'Father, as it please you.' But yet for all that, cousin, let him
  COMINIUS. Ever right.
    In love and service to you evermore.
  TIMON. Why dost thou call them knaves? Thou know'st them not.
    Holding a trencher, jesting merrily?
  KING JOHN. Doth Arthur live? O, haste thee to the peers,
    If speaking, why, a vane blown with all winds;
    He takes false shadows for true substances.
    That I in all despite might rail at him,
  NORFOLK. Six or seven thousand is their utmost power.
  BEROWNE. A kissing traitor. How art thou prov'd Judas?
    Breathe not where princes are.
  LEWIS. But, Warwick,
    Than they whom youth and ease have taught to glose;
  ENOBARBUS. Or, if you borrow one another's love for the instant,
    Think me for the man I am, necessity

    Anne's mind as well as another does. Out upon 't, what
    A wonder, or a wondrous miracle,
    Then do we sin against our own estate
    still-lasting war.

    you o' th' deeds too, if she call your activity in question.
  KING. Things done well
    Here is a coil with protestation!         [Tears the letter]
    Here lived I, but now live here no more.
    I stand for judgment; answer; shall I have it?
    Be pitiful to my condemned sons,
    Thou crossest me? What honour dost thou seek
       over the stage. After them enter FALSTAFF, SHALLOW,
    Or, if you cannot weep, yet give some groans,  
    for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully.
    shoe with the hole in it is my mother, and this my father. A
    A balance more replete.
    A dangerous rhyme, master, against the reason of white and red.
  GUIDERIUS. I do note
    I was employ'd in passing to and fro
    tooth. Eight yards of uneven ground is threescore and ten miles
    That all the courts of France will be disturb'd
  DORCAS. He hath promis'd you more than that, or there be liars.
  ENOBARBUS. All take hands.
  IMOGEN. Let me hear no more.
  Con. I wonder at it.

    And all the fair effects of future hopes.

    Fits a dull fighter and a keen guest.                  Exit.
    Of what I was i' th' morning; but next day
         Those are pearls that were his eyes;
    That they of Rome are ent'red in our counsels
    Lest I be laugh'd at when I tell them so.
  Rom. Farewell!
    The deed you undertake is damnable.

    Where's Dolabella, to second Proculeius?

    That I, your vassal have employ'd and pain'd

  SECOND SOLDIER. It will determine one way. Fare you well.
  GLOUCESTER. The match is made; she seals it with a curtsy.
  PROVOST. This is another prisoner that I sav'd,
    We are enforc'd to farm our royal realm;
    Whom the blind waves and surges have devour'd.
  BUCKINGHAM. The devil speed him! No man's pie is freed
    take thee a box on the ear.
    again? Answer me in one word.
  FOURTH CITIZEN. Mark'd ye his words? He would not take the crown;
    And other devils that suggest by treasons
  BOTTOM. What is Pyramus? A lover, or a tyrant?
    Why urgest thou so oft young Arthur's death?
     Coming from us.
  Ant. Content yourself. God knows I lov'd my niece,  
    O, if to fight for king and commonweal
    While sense can keep it on. And, sweetest, fairest,
    Traduc'd for levity; and 'tis said in Rome
          Enter EUPHRONIUS, the Ambassador; with ANTONY
    But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
    Which was a sin-yet in bestowing, madam,
    the man in blood, they will out of their burrows, like conies
    The fountain from the which my current runs,
    Against the Roman state; whose course will on
    Not yet? No dance! Thus change I like the moon.
  PISANIO. And shall do.
  GLOUCESTER. In saying so, you shall but say the truth.

    'If once he come to be a cardinal,  
  CLOWN. So that you had her wrinkles and I her money, I would she
  Osw. Madam, with much ado.
    Heirs of your kingdoms, my poor house to visit,
    This Helena, old Nedar's Helena.
    What reverence he did throw away on slaves,
    another man, and therefore I can be quiet.
    heard in Genoa.
    If you have any pity, grace, or manners,
    As e'er I did commit.
        CAIUS comes one way, and steals away a fairy in
    If I were a woman, I would kiss as many of you as had beards that
    Rough deeds of rage and stern impatience;
    These lazy knaves? Y'have made a fine hand, fellows.
    Come, we will walk. There's other of our friends
  Tyb. Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe;
Troy. PRIAM'S palace
                     71  
                  ANTONY'S camp near Actium
    Holy Gonzalo, honourable man,
        twain
    Thy sins are visited in this poor child;
    Sweno, the Norways' king, craves composition;
    To mourn a mischief that is past and gone
    Such noble scenes as draw the eye to flow,
  Hor. Do, if it will not stand.

  First my fear, then my curtsy, last my speech. My fear, is your
  ANGELO. Where is the Provost?
    To trade and traffic with Macbeth
    Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
    By such a lowly vassal as thyself.
    Where Phoebus' fire scarce thaws the icicles,
    We do salute you, Duke of Burgundy.
    decreasing leg, an increasing belly? Is not your voice broken,
    To stormy passion, must perforce decay.
    The many-colour'd Iris, rounds thine eye?  
  Thy edge should blunter be than appetite,
         Enter, on the walls, the MAYOR OF YORK and
    The juice of Egypt's grape shall moist this lip.
        Wish'd himself the heaven's breath.
    To draw their swords. But how the fear of us

    As who should say 'When I am dead and gone,
    Will they not, think you, hang themselves to-night?
    Had I but seen thy picture in this plight,
                                                         Exit BASTARD
    on my side.
              Hymen from heaven brought her,
  And grew a seeting bath which yet men prove,
    unseasonably. He was furnish'd like a hunter.
  He nor that affable familiar ghost
  Ten times thy self were happier than thou art,
  Thou wouldst have chang'd thy face for a name, or thy name for an ass.
    Must it be great; and, as his person's mighty,
    For every false drop in her bawdy veins
  LAFEU. I'd give bay Curtal and his furniture
    Therefore let every man now task his thought
  Spread o'er the silver waves thy golden hairs,
    wall; and let him hold his fingers thus, and through that cranny
    little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if

    Therefore away with her, and use her as you will;
    place call upon me; and dispatch with Angelo, that it may be
  CHIRON. Nay, then I'll stop your mouth. Bring thou her husband.  
    them and have ability enough to make such knaveries yours.
    To a strong mast that liv'd upon the sea;
    And in that hope I throw mine eyes to heaven,
  Wor. And 'tis no little reason bids us speed,
    The tongue offends not that reports his death;
    When didst thou sleep when such a deed was done?


    The envious slanders of her false accusers;

  Ham. What man dost thou dig it for?
                     112
    He had two sons- if this be worth your hearing,
    The breath of worldly men cannot depose  
  PORTIA, a rich heiress
  Which happies those that pay the willing loan;
  FIRST SOLDIER. Yield, or thou diest.

  QUEEN. This way for me.                       Exeunt severally
  
    If love ambitious sought a match of birth,
  YORK. The King is come; deal mildly with his youth,
    the better; if it do not, it is a vice in her ears which
  Queen. Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
    Of my dear father's gift stands chief in power,
     Whereof, perchance, these are but furnishings-
    So crimeful and so capital in nature,
    Comment appelez-vous les ongles?
                      Enter a MESSENGER
    of Falstaff's being here, for I never saw him so gross in his
  Which should example where your equal grew.
    As if but now they waxed pale for woe.
    Attend the true event, and put we on
    Either accept the title thou usurp'st,
    measures of lawn, nor for gowns, petticoats, nor caps, nor any
    The breath is gone whereof this praise is made.  
    Against proud Somerset and William Pole,
     Duchess of Burgundy.
    If this which he avouches does appear,

    Purple the sails, and so perfumed that  
    And back to Athens shall the lovers wend
    Answer I must, and shall do with my life.
  IMOGEN. Do't, and to bed then.
    'Good Gloucester' and 'good devil' were alike,
  MESSALA. Myself have letters of the selfsame tenure.
    Make haste, I say.
    That quaint in green she shall be loose enrob'd,
  HORTENSIO. The bass is right; 'tis the base knave that jars.
    To cast thy wand'ring eyes on every stale-
    When you durst do it, then you were a man,
    This ague fit of fear is over-blown;  
    Nor you, Lorenzo; Jessica, nor you.        [A tucket sounds]
    I do arrest your words. Be that you are,
  Pedro. Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite of
Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING with divers young LORDS taking leave
    Till that the nobles and the armed commons
  IAGO. Do thou meet me presently at the harbor. Come hither. If thou
    He came alive to land.
    There shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice
  ELBOW. He, sir? A tapster, sir; parcel-bawd; one that serves a bad


    Now for this night let's harbour here in York;
    robbing; to speak puling, like a beggar at Hallowmas. You were
    While proud ambitious Edward Duke of York
    Treachery! Seek it out.
    For many weary months.
  King. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
    For that I have laid by my majesty
    Such were our faults, or then we thought them none.
    And I will send you to my brother Gloucester,
    And art mine own. I know not why, wherefore  
    The crown to thee and to thine heirs for ever;
    head. Throw the quean in the channel.
    A certain instance that Glendower is dead.
    It plucks out brains and all. But my Muse labors,
  ANTONY. Nay, press not so upon me, stand far off.  
    To put my father in impatient thoughts
  From thee, the pleasure of the fleeting year!
    And this man out of prison?
    him.
    Lie there for pavement to the abject rear,
    our loves to him in this suppos'd distress of his; it will show
  PROSPERO. Sweet now, silence;
    Do what you will, dishonor shall be humor.
    And those musicians that shall play to you
    The times are wild; contention, like a horse
  MESSENGER. And friends with Caesar.
  COMINIUS. Ay, if you come not in the blood of others,
  ALONSO. So is the dear'st o' th' loss.
         How should I your true-love know
    O weraday that ever I was born!
  RODERIGO.           I would not follow him then.
  KING HENRY. How will the country for these woeful chances
    Each one, tripping on his toe,
    She might lie by an emperor's side, and command him tasks.
    The worst is worldly loss thou canst unfold.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    I will be deaf to pleading and excuses;
    Then treasons make me wish myself a beggar,
     Go to th' creating a whole tribe of fops
    To make yourself a son out of my blood.
    As when the golden sun salutes the morn,
    As send precepts to the Leviathan
    The nonpareil of beauty!
  OTHELLO. It is the very error of the moon;
     To such a lowness but his unkind daughters.
  And tender churl mak'st waste in niggarding:
  PUCK. I'll put a girdle round about the earth
    The very thought of my revenges that way
    kingdom; but the midwives say the children are not in the fault;
    As Nature was in making graces dear,
    That I must die here, and live hence by truth?
    will let your lady know I am here to speak with her, and bring
    That wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch.
    Could neither graze nor pierce?
    Come, some music!
  FLAVIUS. You would not hear me

    Of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve
  Prince. Look, and thou shalt see.
  Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
    unto it.
  SON. What is a traitor?
    Did you not tell me this fat man was dead?
    Upon a sore injunction; my sweet mistress
    You love the breeder better than the male.
  LAUNCE. A special virtue; for then she need not be wash'd and
  Fal. Rebellion lay in his way, and he found it.
    with the King of Hungary, why then all the dukes fall upon the
  FIRST SENATOR.  [To the Citizens]  Hence to your homes; be gone.
  MESSENGER. The news is true, my lord: he is descried;
    Stays in his course and plays the alchemist,
    that I borrowed- three or four times, lived well, and in good
    Ah, Joan, sweet daughter Joan, I'll die with thee!
    Methinks false hearts should never have sound legs.
  VALENTINE. As you enjoin'd me, I have writ your letter
  That is my home of love, if I have ranged,
  Jul. [aside] Villain and he be many miles asunder.-
    Please but your honour hear me.
    And will with deeds requite thy gentleness;
    Robs me of that which not enriches him
     So much commend itself, you shall be ours.
    And with her breath she did perfume the air;

    many friends as enemies; which friends, sir, as it were, durst
                                     Exeunt [Montague and Wife].
  DEMETRIUS. Not I, till I have sheath'd
  the bogs.
  VARRO'S SERVANT. I could render one.

    You may as well forbid the mountain pines
LUCIANA. Not this, but troubles of the marriage-bed.
    so seriously he does address himself unto?
  PATROCLUS. Why, no, you ruinous butt; you whoreson
    -Luce, thou hast answer'd him well.
  IMOGEN. Most like I did, for I was dead.
  MERCHANT. O, pray let's see't. For the Lord Timon, sir?
    when his wife was dead, I blush to say it, he won me. Now is the
    What counsel give you? Whither shall we fly?
    thee a precedent.
    What thou hast done thy master Caesar knows,
    Find what thou want'st by free and offer'd light.
    Things that do sound so fair? I' the name of truth,
  RATCLIFF. That he was never trained up in arms.
    Fear none of this. I think you know my fortunes
    Small things make base men proud: this villain here,
  CORIOLANUS. Must I go show them my unbarb'd sconce? Must I
  WARWICK. How now, my Lord Chief Justice; whither away?
  FIRST LORD. I cannot hear of any that did see her.
  OLIVIA. By mine honour, half drunk! What is he at the gate, cousin?
    Didst rob it of some taste of tediousness.
  CASSIUS. What news?
    you have spoken your speech, enter into that brake; and so every
  OTHELLO. Ancient, conduct them; you best know the place.
    Since I first call'd my brother's father dad.
                            Enter BUCKINGHAM
  WARWICK. Speak lower, Princes, for the King recovers.
    To-morrow morning to the Council board
SCENE II.
    ransom him to any French courtier for a new-devis'd curtsy. I
    Of he, the worst of these three gentlemen!
  CORIOLANUS. Tullus Aufidius, then, had made new head?
  THIRD WITCH. That will be ere the set of sun.
    And if we be, how dare thy joints forget
                             Exeunt OXFORD and SOMERSET, guarded
    I needs must wake her. Madam, madam, madam!
    Pyramus but Bottom the weaver. This will put them out of fear.
    His faults, in him, seem as the spots of heaven,
    Bring her to try wi' th' maincourse.  [A cry within]  A

  Your self to pardon of self-doing crime.

     any kind o' thing than a fool! And yet I would not be thee,
    It not concern'd me.
    Tell me, sweet Kate, and tell me truly too,

  MARDIAN,      "     "      "
  TALBOT. Thou antic Death, which laugh'st us here to scorn,
  CHARMIAN. To th'monument!
  KING HENRY. I doubt not that, since we are well persuaded
    A goodly prize, fit for the devil's grace!
    Where oxlips and the nodding violet grows,
    If I would time expend with such a snipe
  ULYSSES. You shall command me, sir.
    With any branch or image of thy state;
    I have an interest in your hate's proceeding,
    For I will board her though she chide as loud
  KING HENRY. My Lord of Warwick and my brother Gloucester,
  PETER. Well, he in time may come to clear himself;
    And yet no matter- why should we go in?
    We give to thee our guiltless blood to drink.
  AENEAS. Health to you, valiant sir,
  NYM. You'll pay me the eight shillings I won of you at betting?
    Our battles join'd, and both sides fiercely fought;
Enter ENOBARBUS and LEPIDUS

  SECOND BANDIT. 'Tis his description.
Enter PISANIO and IMOGEN
    That you have tasted her in bed, my hand
    And make me happy in your unity.  

ADRIANA. His company must do his minions grace,
    Of all the favourites that the absent King  
    And so she died. Had she been light, like you,
    To be reveng'd upon her. For when fools
  Rom. How well my comfort is reviv'd by this!
  OLIVIA. Well, sir, for want of other idleness, I'll bide your
    Can trace me in the tedious ways of art
               Come, come to me,
    Threaten his bloody stage. By the clock 'tis day,
    I am loath to beat thee.
    So in his red blood Cassius' day is set,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
               Trumpets sounding, enter TITUS

  KING HENRY. Why, so I am- in mind; and that's enough.

    Would seem in me t' affect speech and discourse,
                     Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
    There is no virtue like necessity.
    From my own windows torn my household coat,
    Thy very beadsmen learn to bend their bows
  JAQUES. What stature is she of?
    see the light of our fairies. Remember, son Slender, my daughter.
    Or wilt thou sleep? We'll have thee to a couch
    And sure I am two men there are not living
  ANTONY. I learn you take things ill which are not so,
    From a resolv'd and honourable war,
  BASTARD. I Will seek them out.

  To trust those tables that receive thee more:
    The raven rook'd her on the chimney's top,
    Disdaining duty that to us belongs.
    Here purposing the Bastard to destroy,
  DUKE. Come, away!
  KING. I cannot give thee less, to be call'd grateful.
    the first place. Sit, sit. The gods require our thanks:
    Wanton in fullness, seek to hide themselves
     He that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven
                Exeunt ANGELO, MARIANA, FRIAR PETER, and PROVOST
  IMOGEN. Senseless linen, happier therein than I!
     Not bolds the King, with others whom, I fear,

    Stands on a tickle point now they are gone.

  ROSALIND. 'Why, thy godhead laid apart,
    Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks;
    during his life; he could not have scaped sixpence a day. An the
    Do grow beneath their shoulders. This to hear
  And comely distant sits he by her side;
    Holding due course to Harfleur. Follow, follow!
   That did affright the air at Agincourt?
  COUNTESS. Y'are welcome, gentlemen.
    For once, upon a raw and gusty day,
  Lay open to my earthy-gross conceit,
    This doth not so, for she divideth us.
    To make my heart her vassal.
    The Athenians both within and out that wall!
    Whose manners still our tardy apish nation
    And makes me poor indeed.
  SILVIA. And so suppose am I; for in his grave
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Your holy hat to be stamp'd on the King's coin.

    of nature. To speak on the part of virginity is to accuse your
    It shows but little love or judgment in him.
    Here comes the Lady Paulina's steward; he can deliver you more.
    Judas I am-
    We must awake endeavour for defence,
    Let him not seek't of us. By day and night!
     Now, where's your master?
    Ah! when the means are gone that buy this praise,
    To set the exact wealth of all our states
    Success and conquest to attend on us.
    thee at the orchard end. Dismount thy tuck, be yare in thy
    The bonny prizer of the humorous Duke?
    The valiant heart's not whipt out of his trade.         Exit
    away post, I will see you again ere I go.
    I am to blame to be thus waited for.
  MALCOLM. If such a one be fit to govern, speak.
  Enter Friar [Laurence] and the County [Paris], with Musicians.
    But no trace of him.
  BUCKINGHAM. I'll claim that promise at your Grace's hand.
  SUFFOLK. Ay, but these rags are no part of the Duke:
                        [Dashes the glass against the ground]
    To seel her father's eyes up close as oak-
    My grieved ear withal; whereon I begg'd
    To have sav'd their carcasses! took heel to do't,
Scene IV.
  BOTTOM. Ready. Name what part I am for, and proceed.
    'Tis deeds must win the prize, and he of both
    And hath bereft thee of thy life too late!
  Lords, Ladies, Roman Senators, Tribunes, a Soothsayer, a
    Work not so hard; I would the lightning had
    Which stretch'd unto their servants, daughters, wives,
    Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
    Nor God, nor I, delights in perjur'd men.
    thou tassel of a prodigal's purse, thou? Ah, how the poor world is
    Dead Caesar's trencher. Nay, you were a fragment
    Defile the locks of your shrill-shrieking daughters;
  ALEXANDER. Up to the eastern tower,
    Were rich and honourable; besides, the gentleman
    My husband lost his life to get the crown;
         Enter the two CARDINALS, WOLSEY and CAMPEIUS
    Fatal and ominous to noble peers!
  AARON. Why, what a caterwauling dost thou keep!
    Lest, being like one of heaven, the devils themselves
    But lay down our proportions to defend
    'Cause they take vengeance of such kind of men.
    May be the amorous Count solicits her  
  DUKE OF NORFOLK
    That I being absent and my place supplied,

                            Enter Bianca.
    soon mortal.
    I would know that.
    Purge all infection from our air whilst you
    thou art Prince, I fear thee as I fear the roaring of the lion's
  Rom. Why, such is love's transgression.
    Nor the division of a battle knows
    You, cousin Hereford, upon pain of life,
    To give me secret harbour hath a purpose
ADRIANA. Ay me, it is my husband! Witness you
    show. Let us send her to call him in to dinner.
    Shall say against their hearts 'We thank the gods
    Embarquements all of fury, shall lift up
    law in Illyria; though I struck him first, yet it's no matter for
    Poor lady, she were better love a dream.
  Ham. My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah,
    Yet, Warwick, in despite of all mischance,  
    Against that power that bred it. There will she hide her
    To put a strange face on his own perfection.
    Thou hadst an Edward, till a Richard kill'd him;
    May rather pluck on laughter than revenge,
    Check'd like a bondman; all his faults observed,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I Will debate this matter at more leisure,
  LUCENTIO. And what of him?
    Tends to God's glory and my country's weal.
  WIDOW. She shall not.
  KING. We must of force dispense with this decree;
    My bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne,
    My heart dropp'd love, my pow'r rain'd honour, more

    On sheep or oxen could I spend my fury.
  Wife. Well, think of marriage now. Younger than you,
    It shall be stony. York not our old men spares;
    your English tongue. Do you like me, Kate?
                                      Exeunt LUCENTIO and BIANCA
                Enter Romeo's Man Balthasar, booted.
    Therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.
    To this unworthy husband of his wife;
    The which no sooner had his prowess confirm'd
  GREMIO. But thine doth fry.
    On more mechanic compliment; I'll leave thee

<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    As well we may, if not through your neglect-

  Cries out I was possess'd. Then all together

    Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
    Prejudicates the business, and would seem
    have. He hath eaten me out of house and home; he hath put all my
    What heir of York is there alive but we?
  COURT. Brother John Bates, is not that the morning which breaks
    Devouring pestilence hangs in our air

  TAMORA. I am; therefore come down and welcome me.
    And in a bloody battle end thy days!  
  SECOND SERVANT. Come, we are fellows and friends. He was ever too
  ANGELO. Were not you, then, as cruel as the sentence
    the court in the morning . We must all to the wars. and thy place
    That jade hath eat bread from my royal hand;
    And keep the gate of hell!

    Give me assurance with some friendly vow,
  Kent. Report is changeable. 'Tis time to look about; the powers of
  CLOWN. Are you ready, sir?
    Your visitation shall receive such thanks
    Who marvels, then, when Helenus beholds
    With all their honourable points of ignorance
    Commanded of me these most poisonous compounds

    The triumph of his pledge.
    He dies to me again when talk'd of. Sure,
    Then they could smile, and fawn upon his debts,
    But tickles still the sore.
  LUCIUS. Even by my god I swear to thee I will.
  Prince. How shall we part with them in setting forth?
    But far unfit to be a sovereign.
  PETRUCHIO. Worse and worse; she will not come! O vile,
  Rom. I warrant thee my man's as true as steel.
  Queen. Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
    And make death proud to take us. Come, away;
                                                 Exeunt. Alarum.
  QUICKLY. In truth, sir, and she is pretty, and honest, and
  HORTENSIO will be quit with thee by changing.             Exit
    By your renouncement an immortal spirit,
  1. Play. What speech, my good lord?
    will.
    He loves thee, and thou dost neglect him, Thomas.
               Re-enter BAPTISTA, GREMIO, and TRANIO
    And to the battle came he; where he did
    Thou art the nonpareil.
  VIOLA. And he is yours, and his must needs be yours:
    As easily 'gainst our rocks; for joy whereof
  FIRST SERVANT. What would you have, friend?
    Speak, Romans, speak; and if you say we shall,
London. The palace
    You cannot revel into dukedoms there.
         Enter CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO, all wet
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    and hot deeds? Why, they are vipers. Is love a generation of
    You know no more than others! But you frame
  North. Yea, my good lord.

  AJAX. Shall I call you father?
    What 'tis to cram a maw or clothe a back
  KING. 'Tis only title thou disdain'st in her, the which
                    In bloody field
  MESSALA. Mistrust of good success hath done this deed.
    You find him like a soldier; do not take
    No funeral rite, nor man in mourning weed,
    For in that sin he is as deep as I.
  MALVOLIO. Go, hang yourselves all! You are idle shallow things; I
    To keep an adjunct to remember thee
    For thy complexion shifts to strange effects,
    Is all his soldiership. But he, sir, had the election;
    The primogenity and due of birth,
    Which, like a bourn, a pale, a shore, confines
    Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd;
    Things at the worst will cease or else climb upward
  GLOUCESTER. A subtle knave! But yet it shall not serve:
  IAGO. Demand me nothing; what you know, you know.
    Repent but you that you shall lose your friend,

    Fear we broadsides? No, let the fiend give fire.
    hearken a' th' end.
  TIMON. If I hope well, I'll never see thee more.
    Whene'er we come to our account.
  BRANDON. Nay, he must bear you company.
  PRINCE. If he be sick with joy, he'll recover without physic.
    All liberal reason I will yield unto.
     A still-soliciting eye, and such a tongue
    More bright in zeal than the devotion which

    Marian may be the deputy's wife of the ward to thee. Go, you
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Unto an enemy of craft and vantage-
  It was two ere I left him, and now the clock strikes one.
    grave
    You patience to endure, and true repentance
    not drown'd. Is the storm overblown? I hid me under the
    town?
    go your hand, I am barren.                        Exit MARIA
    Cleomenes and Dion, whom you know

  EVANS. Come, will this wood take fire?  
    I am that flower-
    A page so kind, so duteous, diligent,
    Is this your Christian counsel? Out upon ye!
    And call'd mine Percy, his Plantagenet!
    My reverend father, let it not be so!
    Whose spirit, with divine ambition puff'd,
  SECOND LORD. 'Twould not do.
    And yet-
    Lord! she will be a joyful woman.
    Why, then from Ireland come I with my strength,

    Which cannot look more hideously upon me
    are alive at this day to testify it; therefore deny it not.
    I am a plain-dealing villain. I am trusted with a muzzle and
    find me tractable to any honest reason. Thou seest I am pacified.
    Will we acquaint with all what we intend;
  Ben. The date is out of such prolixity.
    Both he, and they, and you, yea, every man

  POLIXENES. Prithee let him.
  POMPEY. Painting, sir, I have heard say, is a mystery; and your

    I deem you an ill husband, and am glad
    again when he was able; I think the Frenchman became his surety,
  POSTHUMUS. Agreed.                Exeunt POSTHUMUS and IACHIMO
    foolish knight'-
                               [Alarum continues still afar off]
    Teaching stern murder how to butcher thee.
    You have show'd a tender fatherly regard
    That once was mistress of the field, and flourish'd,
    In poor beseeming; 'twas a fitment for
    That tears shall drown the wind. I have no spur
  QUICKLY. Sure he is by this; or will be presently; but truly
  MARIA. That last is Berowne, the merry mad-cap lord;
    Known and allied to yours.
  YORK. I never saw a fellow worse bested,
  And this it was, for other means was none:
  CHAMBERLAIN. Look out there, some of ye.             Exit a SERVANT
  CADE. Nay, then he is a conjurer.
  KING. Nay, 'tis most credible. We here receive it,
    Wherefore they do it. They could be content
    Those rich-left heirs that let their fathers lie
    Kneel'd at my feet, and bid me be advis'd?
  MESSENGER. Thy biddings have been done; and every hour,
  That is, to you, my origin and ender;
     Give me some help!- O cruel! O ye gods!
    The thing I have forsworn to grant may never

    Such as she is, in beauty, virtue, birth,

  THYREUS. One that but performs
    That profit us. What ho! slave! Caliban!
  KING. 'Twere good yours did; for, sir, to tell you plain,
  CRESSIDA. In faith, I will, lo; never trust me else.
  And with his presence grace impiety,
    From me, the lord on't.
    To grunt and sweat under a weary life,

    Killing myself, to die upon a kiss.
    will you do to content this substitute, and to save your brother?
    entertainment, your inclining cannot be removed. Here he comes.
  CADE. And good reason; for thereby is England main'd and fain to go
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    I'll be with you.  
Enter GARDINER, BISHOP OF WINCHESTER, a PAGE with a torch before him,
    Judas I am, ycliped Maccabaeus.
  PANDULPH. O, Sir, when he shall hear of your approach,

  Ros. My lord, you once did love me.

    England, bound in with the triumphant sea,
    He shall to Parthia.- Be it art or hap,
  SPEED. To be a spokesman from Madam Silvia?
    Lay a more noble thought upon mine honour
    Should by the minute feed on life, and ling'ring,
    You felt than make't my boast.

    He's as good at any thing, and yet a fool.
  YORK. What seal is that that without thy bosom?
    And that the spoil got on the Antiates
    Agrees not with the leanness of his purse.
                                                Exit MRS. PAGE
    But soft! methinks I scent the morning air.
    long'd to eat adders' heads and toads carbonado'd.
  BRAKENBURY. Sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours,
    When think you that the sword goes up again?
  LUCIO. Gentle and fair, your brother kindly greets you.
    I am your butt, and I abide your shot.
  CYMBELINE. All that belongs to this.
    mine honour in my necessity, am fain to shuffle, to hedge,

  CLOWN. Look then to be well edified when the fool delivers the
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. O Lord, I must laugh!
    I have sworn't.
    Submissive fall his princely feet before,
    What might you think? No, I went round to work
    Take or lend. Ho! No answer? Then I'll enter.
    Doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe.
    Than that which lives to fear. Make it your comfort,
    You are too cold: if you should need a pin,
    How now?
    That Silvia at Friar Patrick's cell should meet me.
    Seems to flow from him! How, i' th' name of thrift,
    Good lords, although my will to give is living,
    But did I never speak of all that time?
  The wiry concord that mine ear confounds,
SCENE VI.
  AUFIDIUS. The town is ta'en.
  GLOUCESTER. No, to White Friars; there attend my coming.
    I'll muster up my friends and meet your Grace
    If study's gain be thus, and this be so,
  COMINIUS. Ag'd sir, hands off.
    May it please your Highness to resolve me now;
    Then I, and you, and all of us fell down,
    And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword.
  KING RICHARD. Up With my tent! Here will I lie to-night;
  CLARENCE. I shall observe him with all care and love.
  STRATO,       "    "     "
  A third nor red, nor white, had stol'n of both,
  Bene. O, stay but till then!
  Ant. I saw him not.
          And in sad cypress let me be laid;
     Into her womb convey sterility;
    And so did mine too, as the matter falls;
    monster, in good sooth!
  But that is in my thought, whose love to you
  SURREY.  [Aside]  The Lord increase this business!
  Which erst from heat did canopy the herd
    circumstances partly laid open, thou, Hermione, contrary to the
  KING. No devil will fright thee then so much as she.

  SHEPHERD. Prithee, son, do; for we must be gentle, now we are

  POMPEY. Master Barnardine! You must rise and be hang'd, Master
    Her dowry shall weigh equal with a queen;  

    To save my boy, to nourish and bring him up;
Park. The palace
  CALPURNIA. Alas, my lord,
    And here I'll fling the pillow, there the bolster,

    To counsel me to make my peace with God,
    Though last, not least in love, yours, good Trebonius.
    Shorten thy life one week. And thou, fresh piece
  CHATILLON. Thus, after greeting, speaks the King of France
    You say he is so fell.
    Nay, to be perjur'd, which is worst of all;
    Let's have your company; or, if you please,
  CLEOPATRA. Will it eat me?
  THERSITES. Do, do.
  GLOUCESTER. The Tower! the Tower!                         Exit

  SHALLOW. Where's the roll? Where's the roll? Where's the roll? Let

    Stuck in my throat.
  JULIA. And why not you?
  Lest guilty of my faults thy sweet self prove.
    But pardon me, I am too sudden bold;
    No, nor to-morrow, not till I please myself.
    Who painfully with much expedient march
    That he is bound to? Wife, thou art a fool.
  DAVY. Doth the man of war stay all night, sir?
    To attend the Emperor's person carefully.
    To seem despiteful and ungentle to you.
    as a present to Mistress Silvia from my master; and I came no
    She was a charmer, and could almost read
  JAQUES. Why, who cries out on pride
    Looking for Antony. But all the charms of love,

                                                  [Strikes him.]
               What, dead, my dove?
    Hundreds he sent to hell, and none durst stand him;
  JAQUES. All the world's a stage,
    Conceives by idleness, and nothing teems
    Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly.
  CHARMIAN. Well, if you were but an inch of fortune better than I,

      Do curse the grace that with such grace hath blest them,
    And with such coz'nage- is't not perfect conscience
    Embrace each other's love in banishment;

    Are not you griev'd that Arthur is his prisoner?

    lips blows at his nose, and it is like a coal of fire, sometimes
  SOLANIO. The villain Jew with outcries rais'd the Duke,
    Long die thy happy days before thy death;  
    I chose her when I could not ask my father
  PROSPERO. Ariel, thy charge
    wear pearl and gold? I thank my good father, I am able to
    And truly yielded you. You're very welcome.           Exeunt

    house withal; and, I warrant you, no tell-tale nor no
    Mad and fantastic execution,
    And had, besides this gentleman in question,  
  IMOGEN. Thou art all the comfort
    Thy master is not there, who was indeed
    Making that idiot, laughter, keep men's eyes
    and, to run away from the Jew, I should be ruled by the fiend,
    In fearful sense.
    This is the news: he fishes, drinks, and wastes
    I do excuse you; yea, upon mine honour,
  ANTONY. Which do not be entreated to, but weigh
    this taborer; he lays it on.
    To-morrow you set on.
    With this regard their currents turn awry
    for here he comes in the likeness of a Jew.
    Against the brows of this resisting town;

    And warriors faint! Why, 'twere perpetual shame.
  THIRD SERVANT. Why, sir, you know no house nor no such maid,
    Save that his riotous youth, with dangerous sense,
     I told him of the army that was landed:
  'I know' quoth he 'no house, no wife, no mistress.'
                     Enter EDWARD, running
  AGUECHEEK. If I do not, never trust me; take it how you will.
    In dangerous wars whilst you securely slept;
    off his head presently, and then break into his son-in-law's
  LUCIUS. O worthy Goth, this is the incarnate devil
    But men may construe things after their fashion,
    O wise young judge, how I do honour thee!  
    And look thyself be faultless, thou wert best.  
    Give Richard leave to live till Richard die?
     Pray you now, forget and forgive. I am old and foolish.
  FORD. There is no better way than that they spoke of.
    With that she's big with- for 'tis Polixenes
    gentle; and one that is your friend, I can tell you that by
  FALSTAFF. I'll go out then.
    To unstable slightness. Purpose so barr'd, it follows
  Wife. O me! this sight of death is as a bell
    return'd; I could hardly entreat him back; he attends your
    Of much good news?
  MESSENGER. My sovereign liege, no letters, and few words,
    And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
    So are we Caesar's friends that have abridged
  PETRUCHIO. Do, good old grandsire, and withal make known
    And mere instinct of love and loyalty,
    Why are you virtuous? Why do people love you?
    I not desire to know. Follow thy drum;
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  Wor. Hear me, my liege.

    Moist it again, and frame some feeling line
    Have talk'd of Monmouth's grave.
  CLOWN. I would play Lord Pandarus of Phrygia, sir, to bring a
    The constable desires thee thou wilt mind
    And foot me as you spurn a stranger cur
    All our abilities, gifts, natures, shapes,
  'Had my friend's Muse grown with this growing age,
    The royal tree hath left us royal fruit
    For I have had such faults; but rather tell me,
  WILLIAMS. Do you think I'll be forsworn?
    Lest He that is the supreme King of kings
    Keep off aloof with worthless emulation.
    Begin it with weak straws. What trash is Rome,
    And therefore frolic; we will hence forthwith
  SURVEYOR. Not long before your Highness sped to France,
    diest before I come, thou art a mocker of my labour. Well said!
         Though angel on the outward side!
    His honesty rewards him in itself;
    Demurely wake the sleepers. Let us bear him
    Dauphin, command the citizens make bonfires
    Hug their diseas'd perfumes, and have forgot
  BUCKINGHAM. Sorry I am my noble cousin should

    O, giglot fortune!- to master Caesar's sword,
    an arm? No. Or take away the grief of a wound? No. Honour hath no
    And therefore I'll uncrown him ere't be long.'
    'Thou liest' unto thee with a voice as free
    A carbuncle entire, as big as thou art,
    As bring me to the sight of Isabella,
  BRUTUS. A piece of work that will make sick men whole.
    Give Mutius burial with our bretheren.
    after?  
  Prince. Well, here I am set.
    Non eget Mauri iaculis, nec arcu.'
    To enter our Rome gates. I' th' people's name,  
    But I can tell you that of late this Duke

  The little Love-god lying once asleep,
    beseech you take it for your own fault, and not mine; for had you
  TOUCHSTONE. Salutation and greeting to you all!
  FIRST MURDERER. I would speak with Clarence, and I came
  
    I dreamt last night of the three weird sisters:
    Or horse or oxen from the leopard,
             [The Attendants part them, and they come out of the

    No, it begins again.
    monastery; but, by chance, nothing of what is writ. Look, th'

    Make sacred even his stirrup, and through him

    That calls upon us, by the grace of Grace
  CORIOLANUS. Spoke he of me?
              Re-enter CASSANDRA, with PRIAM
  ALL. Come, high or low;
    To death with mortal joy.
     Come hither, herald. Let the trumpet sound,
  Gads. As we were sharing, some six or seven fresh men sea upon us-  
    Looking all downwards to behold our cheeks  
    desire better sympathy? Let it suffice thee, Mistress Page

    Have done to this.
    From our companion, thrown into his grave,
    That Margaret your Queen and my son Edward
    clamors.
  ULYSSES. I cannot conjure, Troyan.
    Some one way, some another. Do you know
    ever be your table sport; let them say of me 'As jealous as

    The Cardinal!
    Greater than both, by the all-hail hereafter!
    Should yawn at alteration.
    You are not wood, you are not stones, but men;
    To every Roman citizen he gives,
    And all their lands restor'd to them again
    Here he comes, and in the gown of humility. Mark his behaviour.
    And all her husbandry doth lie on heaps,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    But health, alack, with youthful wings is flown
  FIRST MURDERER. Right, as snow in harvest. Come, you
  Another time mine eye is my heart's guest,
    And we must take the current when it serves,
    Of this oppressed boy; this is thy eldest son's son,
    Thou art thence banish'd, we would muster all
  DIOMEDES. I had your heart before; this follows it.
  AGAMEMNON. What would you fore our tent?
    Shall I be your playfellow?
  DESDEMONA.          In troth, I think thou wouldst not.
    I'll to my queen, and beg her Indian boy;
  PROVOST. Angelo hath seen them both, and will discover the favour.
    For you, Prince Bassianus, I have pass'd
  SEBASTIAN. What stuff is this! How say you?
  ROSALIND. Why, God will send more if the man will be thankful. Let  
    Of your dear mother England, blush for shame;

       mistresses to Alcibiades
    Roderigo! When these mutualities so marshal the way, hard at hand
    Is one of the fairest that I have look'd upon.
    I hop'd thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
    That very oft we pity enemies.
                                        [Coming from the throne]
  PAROLLES. I have not, my lord, deserv'd it.
                                       Exeunt APEMANTUS and FOOL
    A very serious business calls on him.
    Unto a ragged, fearful, hanging rock,
  LUCENTIO. Fiddler, forbear; you grow too forward, sir.
    Away from me, and let me hear no more!
    Came he not home to-night?
    Where all my sins are writ, and that's myself.
  ROSS. You must have patience, madam.
    My will to her consent is but a part.  
    Till when, go seek thy fortune.                              Exit
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    The Duke is humorous; what he is, indeed,
     I am a gentleman of blood and breeding,
    Let not this wasp outlive, us both to sting.
  BRUTUS. Well, then I shall see thee again?
PINCH, a schoolmaster
  Some in her threaden fillet still did bide,
  QUEEN. Away, my lord! You are slow; for shame, away!
    More fierce and more inexorable far
  SIR TOBY. A very dishonest paltry boy, and more a coward than a
  ANTONY. O, pardon me, thou bleeding piece of earth,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  DONALBAIN. What is amiss?
    Never pray more; abandon all remorse;
    Pick'd from the worm-holes of long-vanish'd days,
    To guard a thing not ours, nor worth to us,
    Thy stones with lime and hair knit up in thee.
    Let me have your express opinions
    By Roderigo.
    What 'tis you go about. To climb steep hills
  '"My parts had pow'r to charm a sacred nun,
  HIPPOLYTA. I am aweary of this moon. Would he would change!

    speak as small as you will.
    They smack of honor both. Go get him surgeons.
    my speech.
  GLOUCESTER. It is the worst, and all, my lord, he writes.
     Let me unseal the letter.
    Are singled forth to try thy experiments.
    plants with carving 'Rosalind' on their barks; hangs odes upon
  ULYSSES. A strange fellow here

    chevalier, je pense, le plus brave, vaillant, et tres distingue
    To the contrary I have express commandment.

  TOUCHSTONE. Wilt thou rest damn'd? God help thee, shallow man! God
    What man thou art.
    So meet for this great errand. Please your ladyship


  OLIVER. not Charles, the Duke's wrestler, here to speak with me?
Enter Laertes and Ophelia.
    Breathe I against thee, upon pain of life.
    Can arbitrate this cause betwixt us twain;
  SATURNINUS. 'Tis good, sir. You are very short with us;
    Blush for pure shame to counterfeit our roses,
    And lards the lean earth as he walks along.
  MARULLUS. What mean'st thou by that? Mend me, thou saucy fellow!
                       and MICHAEL WILLIAMS
    There would be hands uplifted in my right;

  SUFFOLK. Look on my George, I am a gentleman:
  MONTGOMERY. And whoso'er gainsays King Edward's right,
    Where serpents are; chain me with roaring bears,
  PANDARUS. Asses, fools, dolts! chaff and bran, chaff and bran!
    concern much. Stay not thy compliment; I forgive thy duty. Adieu.

  Her eyes so suited, and they mourners seem,
                          Enter Hostess.
    Saw you the field? Came you from Shrewsbury?
    What man I am, and how, and why, and where,
    She soon shall know of us, by some of ours,
    Conjures the wand'ring stars, and makes them stand
  TIMON. To sauce thy dishes.
    The gods preserve our noble tribunes! Come.           Exeunt
    most graze, birds best peck, and men sit down to that nourishment
    Convey me to my bed, then to my grave.
  IACHIMO. O, I must, madam.  
     I have o'erheard a plot of death upon him.
    Ere I will yield my virgin patent up
  Rey. I shall, my lord.
    What humble suit attends thy answer there.
    With nimble soles; I have a soul of lead
    O miserable thought! and more unlikely
    And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit
  Is perjured, murd'rous, bloody full of blame,
    all which the Moor is defective in. Now, for want of these
    Are bringing forth our youth. We'll break our walls
  SECOND LORD. All cover'd dishes!
  LODOVICO. Truly, an obedient lady.
    O sacred receptacle of my joys,
    a husband.' An bad thinking do not wrest true speaking, I'll
  GRUMIO. O, ay, Curtis, ay; and therefore fire, fire; cast on no
    Of whom so often I have heard renown
    That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is a vile


    His cocks do win the battle still of mine,
  KATHARINE. You are a saucy fellow.

  GENTLEWOMAN attending on Virgilia
  Prince. Why, Percy I kill'd myself, and saw thee dead!
    So feat, so nurse-like; let his virtue join
    it a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it if you three will
    [ Within: Do you hear, master porter?]
    Like a poor bark, of sails and tackling reft,
    Can from his mother win the Duke of York,
    Bid Gloucester think of this, and he will weep.  
    To think, when thou shalt be disedg'd by her
    ever, I mean purpose, courage, and valor, this night show it; if
    All on a heap, like to a slaughtered lamb,
    Wherein the noble youth did dress themselves.
    I cannot name; 'tis nameless woe, I wot.
  And steal dead seeming of his living hue?
  He did arrest me with an officer.
    Time hath not yet so dried this blood of mine,
    More than a little is by much too much.
    O that our fathers would applaud our loves,
  NESTOR. Nothing, my lord.
  PATRICIANS. Peace, peace, peace; stay, hold, peace!
    That mothers shall but smile when they behold
  FALSTAFF. Simple of itself; I'll no pullet-sperm in my
    Were all thy children kind and natural!
    Let him not know't and he's not robb'd at all.  
  SIR TOBY. Excellent; it hangs like flax on a distaff, and I hope to
    a doit.
    Two of the sweet'st companions in the world.
     Than now to bid you hold.
    It is my business too. Farewell.
    Is thine, if thou wilt ha't.
  CYMBELINE. You must know,
      My tears for glasses, and still make me weep.
  SEBASTIAN. Save his Majesty!
    What Antony shall speak, I will protest
  CROMWELL. My Lord of Winchester, y'are a little,
    Myself have to mine own turn'd enemy.

    Put we our quarrel to the will of heaven;
    Continu'd so until we thought he died.
    Great Coeur-de-lion's heart was buried
    And then, as we have ta'en the sacrament,


    Come hither, gentlemen,
    To rank our chosen truth with such a show  
                                        Exeunt CHATILLON and PEMBROKE
    Romeo, there dead, was husband to that Juliet;
    knew yet but rebuke and check was the reward of valour. Do you

  Mer. Nay, if our wits run the wild-goose chase, I am done; for thou
  PLANTAGENET. How I am brav'd, and must perforce endure
    he hath taken away from thy father perforce, I will render thee
    basket. I quak'd for fear lest the lunatic knave would have
  BRUTUS. O, yes, and soundless too,
    That I have much ado to know myself.
    Even to his inches, and, with private soul,
    Among this princely heap, if any here,
    As I before imparted to your worship,
  Pedro. In private?
    Have I, thy schoolmaster, made thee more profit
    As ever off'red foul play in a state.
    What hands are here? Ha, they pluck out mine eyes!
    my allegiance! he is in love. With who? Now that is your Grace's
  LARTIUS. What is become of Marcius?  
    Here's goodly work!
  ARCHIDAMUS. If you shall chance, Camillo, to visit Bohemia, on the
    Begin these wood-birds but to couple now?
  CAMILLO.  [Aside]  What I do next shall be to tell the King
    no less. Therefore this letter, being so excellently ignorant,  
    Fear you his tyrannous passion more, alas,
    Would seem hyperboles. At this fusty stuff


    To be a speaker free: when I am hence
  Ham. In heaven. Send thither to see. If your messenger find him not
  FIRST SOLDIER. Acordo linta.
    Lofty and sour to them that lov'd him not,
  BASSIANUS. Lavinia, how say you?
  COMINIUS. Come, sir, along with us.
  EARL OF NORTHUMBERLAND             EARL OF WESTMORELAND
    Make me, that nothing have, with nothing griev'd,
    And that your Majesty was an usurper.
    am I at the least. But wilt thou make a fire, or shall I complain
    Makes them thus forward in his banishment.
    Must I receive, whose every word deserves
    And tell them that, to ease them of their griefs,
  WILLIAM. Two.
    Her advocate to th' loud'st. We do not know
    Wound the loud winds, or with bemock'd-at stabs

    Hast thou not worldly pleasure at command
    A noble earl, and many a creature else
    From mine own library with volumes that
  FALSTAFF. Fie! this is hot weather. Gentlemen, have you provided me
    That deep and dreadful organ-pipe, pronounc'd
    That my keen knife see not the wound it makes
    for these foolish officers, I beseech you I may have redress

DUKE OF NORFOLK, with his marshal's staff, DUKE OF SUFFOLK,
    A little witness my obedience. Look!
    Our pastimes done, possess a golden slumber,
    Against my brother's life.
    You have made fair work, I fear me. Pray, your news.
    broil'd and eaten him too.
  DUKE. Fie, sirrah, a bawd, a wicked bawd!  
  GRUMIO. Here, sir; as foolish as I was before.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Finely put on indeed!

  Ham. No, not I!
  IACHIMO. Ay, and the approbation of those that weep this lamentable
  ISABELLA. My brother did love Juliet,  
  FIRST LORD. Sir, as I told you always, her beauty and her brain go
                                                          Exeunt
SCENE II.
  PROSPERO. Soft, Sir! one word more.
  MACBETH. Sweet remembrancer!
  OLD SHEPHERD, reputed father of Perdita
  That kitchen'd me for you to-day at dinner;
  Would that alone a love he would detain,

  GLOUCESTER. [Aside to CLARENCE] Nay, then whip me; he'll rather
  THERSITES. Mars his idiot! Do, rudeness; do, camel; do, do.
    my quarrel.
    To say 'Live, boy.' Ne'er thank thy master. Live;

    But to defend his person from night-foes?
    times in the thought they were not fairies; and yet the
  AEDILE. List to your tribunes. Audience! peace, I say!
    Thou other gold-bound brow, is like the first.
Antium. AUFIDIUS' house
    A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
    How comes this gentle concord in the world  
    The other way's a Mars.                         [To MARDIAN]
     Where's my knave? my fool? Go you and call my fool hither.
  PROTEUS. Go on before; I shall enquire you forth;
    In honour follows Coriolanus.
    Shall be my winding-sheet. Why faint you, lords?
    The buckles on his breast, reneges all temper,
    darkness. When thou ran'st up Gadshill in the night to catch my
  FIRST SENATOR. You undergo too strict a paradox,
  OLIVIA. Let the garden door be shut, and leave me to my hearing.
  And place my merit in the eye of scorn,
    To lead out many to the Holy Land,
        During this song they pinch FALSTAFF. DOCTOR
    a Beadle, a Sheriff, Officers, Citizens, Prentices, Falconers,
FLAVIUS and others attending; and then enter LORD TIMON, the states,
    Have to the full appeach'd.
    And find no check? Let us, my liege, to arms.
  THIRD CITIZEN. O woeful day!
Rome. CAESAR'S house
  SPEED. Such another proof will make me cry 'baa.'  
  AGUECHEEK. Ay, is't, I warrant him; do but read.
    With keels of every kind. Many hot inroads
    But thoughts the slave, of life, and life time's fool,
    I had a brother, then. Heaven keep your honour!
                        Re-enter PYRAMUS
                                  [BRUTUS and SICINIUS go aside]
  BASTARD. Hear the crier.
Enter FERDINAND, hearing a log
  SICINIUS. Nay, pray be patient; if you refuse your aid
    Suffer't, and live with such as cannot rule
  LAFEU. There's one grape yet; I am sure thy father drunk wine-but
    Within this mile break forth a hundred springs;
  IAGO. She that was ever fair and never proud,
    Master, has my fellow Tranio stol'n your clothes?
    O'erbearing interruption, spite of France?
  JAQUENETTA. So I heard you say.
  SECOND CITIZEN. Ill news, by'r lady; seldom comes the
    petty exhibition; but, for the whole world- why, who would not
    Or banished fair England's territories,
    That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
    Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing,  
    Sharp Buckingham unburdens with his tongue
  And dwell upon your grave when you are dead;
    To keep mine own- excuse it how she can.
  QUEEN. Ha!
    The loose encounters of lascivious men;
    As thou dost, Antony; he hears no music;
    Have to you, but with thanks to God for such
  BASSANIO. I know thee well; thou hast obtain'd thy suit.
    But for your health and your digestion sake,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    An honour in him which buys out his fault-
  ISABELLA. O that it were as like as it is true!
    plot as ever was laid; our friends true and constant: a good
    In mouths of wisest censure. What's the matter,

    Discomfited great Douglas; ta'en him once,
  Thou art, as you are all, a sorceress;
    Cannot but feel this wrong as 'twere their own;
  CLOWN. How now, my hearts! Did you never see the picture of 'we  
  FIRST SOLDIER. O, pray, pray, pray! Manka revania dulche.
  Marg. For a hawk, a horse, or a husband?
                Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
  POSTHUMUS. Yes indeed do I, fellow.
    That we with wisest sorrow think on him
    The rain and wind beat dark December, how,
  IAGO. Or to be naked with her friend in bed
    And leave you not a man-of-war unsearch'd.
    I tell thee, I, that thou hast marr'd her gown.
  TITUS. Come, go with me into mine armoury.
    A year before. It is not to be question'd  

    Proceed in practice with my younger daughter;
  ROSALIND. As the coney that you see dwell where she is kindled.
  BELARIUS. Here's a few flowers; but 'bout midnight, more.
    Sons to Tamora:
    Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg-
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
     And machination ceases. Fortune love you!
    With juice of cursed hebona in a vial,
    Have we not lost most part of all the towns,
    examination.                                         [Exit.]  
  Jul. If I do so, it will be of more price,
    So shall we stay, mocking intended game,
    Let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me.
    And thence to France shall we convey you safe
    Nor shall appear in Sicilia.
    And dallies with the wind, and scorns the sun.
    Subdue him at his peril.
    behoves men to be wary.
  FIRST STRANGER. For mine own part,
    Three days before; but this from rumour's tongue
  LORD. Nay, be not angry, sir.
    fighting a days and foining a nights, and begin to patch up thine
    speciously one of them; Mistress Ford, good heart, is beaten
    We heard it all.- My lord, do as you please;
    To beaten Douglas, and the Earl of Athol,

                       Enter a SOLDIER
  SEYTON. It is the cry of women, my good lord.            Exit.

    I never should forget it. 'Wilt thou not, Jule?' quoth he,

  TOUCHSTONE. Thus men may grow wiser every day. It is the first time
    Will wing me to some wither'd bough, and there
  FALSTAFF. For one of them- she's in hell already, and burns poor
  CLARENCE. A little fire is quickly trodden out,

    Our Roman rites: Alarbus' limbs are lopp'd,
Before Orleans
    Cousin, I am too young to be your father,
    Winnow the truth from falsehood. On, speak to him.
    Herself's a bawd. Let not the virgin's cheek
    And henceforth I am thy true servitor.
  PISTOL. Shall I Sir Pandarus of Troy become,
  HOST. That is, he will make thee amends.

    Hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes;
  YORK. Take not, good cousin, further than you should,
    Shall enter me with him.

  Reg. I know your lady does not love her husband;
  Or if they have, where is my judgment fled,
  EXETER. The Duke of York commends him to your Majesty.
  Looking on darkness which the blind do see.
    That he shall not offend your Majesty.
             His eyes were green as leeks.
Enter PROSPERO, FERDINAND, and MIRANDA
    One is too poor, too weak for my revenge.
    Which you might from relation likewise reap,
                     Enter HUBERT
  PUCK. Now when thou wak'st with thine own fool's eyes peep.
    Troyan-now the sleeve, now the sleeve!
  While thou dost breathe that pour'st into my verse,
    illustrate, and learned gentleman, before the Princess- I say
    I'll cross it, though it blast me.- Stay illusion!
    plain: 'Sirrah knock me here, rap me here, knock me well, and
  KING HENRY. Lord Say, the traitors hate thee;
   Then should the warlike Harry, like himself,
    So forcing faults upon Hermione,
  CASSIO. No, for I hold him to be unworthy of his place that does
    Performers of this heinous bloody deed?
    That I may slumber an eternal sleep!
    As I am confident and kind to thee.
  LODOVICO. The same indeed; a very valiant fellow.
    cheap estimation, is worth all your predecessors since Deucalion;  
    Last time I danc'd attendance on his will
    My haste is very great. Farewell; hie home.
  DERBY. I, by attorney, bless thee from thy mother,
    Fall like amazing thunder on the casque
    Thy wife is proud; she holdeth thee in awe
    and, I think, no other treasure to give your followers; for it
    Now, how dost thou look now? O ill-starr'd wench!
    When they are gone, then must I count my gains.         Exit
    Virtue itself- these shrugs, these hum's and ha's,
    In peace what each of them by th' other lose
    My father from the breast of Bolingbroke,
    We bear our civil swords and native fire
  SCARUS. I had a wound here that was like a T,
    To-morrow be in readiness to go-
  IRIS
    Welcome, my good Alexas. Did I, Charmian,
    And touch thy instrument a strain or two?
                          SCENE VI.
    'hereafter' the kneading, the making of the cake, the heating
    Hie hence, and tell him so. Yet stay awhile,
  For then my thoughts (from far where I abide)
    prepare for dinner.
    And little look'd for at your helping hands.
    Armed in proof and led by shallow Richmond.
    suffice, most forcible Feeble.
    That I despise thee for thy wrongful suit,
    Better be held nor more attain'd than by

    These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
  lay to your horse; and she would have me as a beast: not
    company. I think, if your husbands were dead, you two
    Follow me, soldiers; we'll devise a mean
    And on the pieces of the broken wand
    to my wit; do not think it so unwholesome. Ha, ha, ha!
    Sebastian, so many; Corambus, so many; Jaques, so many; Guiltian,
    The mind of Talbot as you did mistake
    For where there is advantage to be given,
    And now, like Ajax Telamonius,
    How does my good Lord Hamlet?
    out of all reasonable match. If thou beest not damn'd for this,
    Then check'd and rated by Northumberland,

    father?
    What revels are in hand? Is there no play
    This par]iament of white and spotless hue;
    With strange invention. But of that tomorrow,
London. A street
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Every good hap to you that chances here.
    Attorney'd at your service.
    Shall be their father's bail; and bane to those
    Which torments me to conceal. By villainy
    stirring but what lights o' my shoulders; no sighs but o' my
    of profiting, that what thou speakest may move and what he hears
    And minister in their steads. To general filths
  MONTJOY. Montjoy.
  Clown. Why, sir, his hide is so tann'd with his trade that 'a will
  DOLABELLA. Caesar, 'tis his schoolmaster:
    ends for flap-dragons, and rides the wild mare with the boys, and
    In the meantime I will draw a bill of properties, such as our

    My father, being the Earl of Warwick's man,
  ROSALIND. I thought thy heart had been wounded with the claws of a
    To wake and wage a danger profitless.
    Were strangely clamorous to the frighted fields.
  KING RICHARD. Be not so hasty to confound my meaning.
           Solemn and strange music; and PROSPERO on the
Enter TRANIO as LUCENTIO, and the PEDANT dressed like VINCENTIO
The woods near the sea-shore. Before TIMON'S cave
    And, madam, at your father's castle walls
  PANDARUS. It should seem, fellow, that thou hast not seen the Lady
  ALCIBIADES. When I have laid proud Athens on a heap-
    Due reference of place and exhibition,

    'Tis positive 'gainst all exceptions, lords,
    My lords, I thank you both for your good wins;
    Those we profess, peace-makers, friends, and servants.
    Resolve my doubt. You twain, of all the rest,
  How many lambs might the stern wolf betray,
    And last the hearty welcome.
    What, man! Neer pull your hat upon your brows;
    Approaching near these eyes would drink my tears,
    into a justice-like serving-man. Their spirits are so married in
    go to Saint Luke's to bid the priest be ready to come against you
    point of the letter that I dropp'd to betray him. He does smile
    That no particular scandal once can touch
  JAQUES. I thank you for your company; but, good faith, I had as
    This fortress built by Nature for herself
    Go to Ventidius. Prithee be not sad,
                 Enter SIR TOBY and MARIA
    Larded with many several sorts of reasons,
  ROSALIND. And I am your Rosalind.  
    Go thou with her to the west end of the wood;
    The seas and winds, old wranglers, took a truce,  
  COMINIUS. I think 'twill serve, if he
                                            [Exeunt Attendants.]

  LEWIS. We will attend to neither.
    Of a full-charg'd confederacy, and give thanks
  PAROLLES. Faith, I know more than I'll speak.
ADRIANA. What, the chain?
    Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
    Are you not well?
  MONTANO. Nay, good lieutenant; I pray you, sir, hold your hand.
    And to this purpose speak: Kings, princes, lords!
  JULIA. I would I knew his mind.
    of money, which must be paid to Master Brook; his horses
    That in civility thou seem'st so empty?
    upon Saint Tavy's day.
    Do my sighs stream. Sir, will you hear my suit?
                     GONZALO, and OTHERS
    Than Prospero, master of a full poor cell,
  BOYET. If to come hither you have measur'd miles,
    That we may praise Thee in the victory!
    And salt too little which may season give
SCENE 5.
  ADAM. Is 'old dog' my reward? Most true, I have lost my teeth in
    To whom I am so infinitely bound.
  VALENTINE. Why, sir, who bade you call her?
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
                           [Pulling clothes out of the basket]
    The foul corruption of a sweet child's death.
  MACBETH. Call 'em, let me see 'em.
  Doth follow night who like a fiend
    Bearing their own misfortunes on the back
    How silent is this town! Ho! Murther! Murther!
      sad with troubles;
    shall be to your good; for my father's house and all the revenue
    But yet I slew him manfully in fight,
    Then let me go, and hinder not my course.
    Your ancient, trusty, pleasant servant Grumio.

    Of greater sums than I have promised.
    And therefore sit you down in gentleness,

  Pedro. Good Signior Leonato, are you come to meet your trouble? The
  OTHELLO. Not now, sweet Desdemona; some other time.
  CRESSIDA. O, he smiles valiantly!
    We wish it ours again; the present pleasure,
    And use it for my haste. Come, come, away!
  GLOUCESTER. He is; and, see, he brings the mayor along.
  Bora. Yea, my lord; but I can cross it.
  GREMIO. No doubt but he hath got a quiet catch.
    The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen
    By flatterers; and what they will inform,
  CAMILLO. My gracious lord,

    ransomed, and a many poor men's lives saved.
     Myself could else outfrown false Fortune's frown.
    Nor no without-book prologue, faintly spoke

    The common stroke of war.
    Methought I sat in seat of majesty
    And so our scene must to the battle fly;
    Lead'st first to win some vantage.
  VIOLA. No, my profound heart; and yet, by the very fangs of malice
    The thrifty hire I sav'd under your father,
  AJAX. Thou stool for a witch!

    With curses in her mouth, tears in her eyes,

    No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
  And afterward consort you till bed time.
    Hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy?
              Moulded the stuff so fair
    To slander music any more than once.
  Pedro. Do so. Farewell.  
    The quality and hair of our attempt
    Who told me, in the narrow seas that part
    No stricter render of me than my all.

    Your eyes do menace me. Why look you pale?
    This reprobate till he were well inclin'd,
    Which with my scimitar I'll cool to-morrow.
  CASSIO. A knave teach me my duty! But I'll beat the knave into a
    And then with kind embracements, tempting kisses,
  QUICKLY.  [Aside to SIMPLE]  Are you avis'd o' that? You  
Enter FRANCIS and another DRAWER
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY

    Nay, take them.                      [Gives hack the letter]
    Straight how 'tis like to go.                           Exit
  PROTEUS. Your friends are well, and have them much commended.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    This proffer is absurd and reasonless.
    Then the boy's fat l'envoy, the goose that you bought;
    Unto this bar and royal interview,
    The game was ne'er so fair, and I am done.
    So sways she level in her husband's heart.
    For thousands more that yet suspect no peril
    And soundly too. Your houses!
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Awhile to work, and after holiday.                    Exeunt
    Their courage with hard labour tame and dull,
  PANDARUS. Nor his qualities.
                       Enter a GENTLEMAN
  TRINCULO. The sound is going away; let's follow it, and  
    Threat'ning the welkin with his big-swol'n face?
    So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape;
    Cry 'God save Richard, England's royal King!'
    Than my heart cool with mortifying groans.
  MRS. FORD. I know not which pleases me better, that my
  PUCK. Thou speakest aright:
  Glou. Think you so?
  MALVOLIO. Madam, I will.                                  Exit
  TIMON. Be a whore still; they love thee not that use thee.
    and thou shalt not die for lack of a dinner, if there live
    Have by the very cunning of the scene
  EMILIA. Ha!
ANGELO. My lord, in truth, thus far I witness with him,
  Balthasar, attendant on Don Pedro.
    Who sent it? and what is it?
    show doth better; this doth infer the zeal I had to see him.  
  DUKE. Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful. Have you not
  HELENA. What is your pleasure, madam?
    Shall have my Bianca's love.
    What dost thou mean by shaking of thy head?
  ANGELO. Charges she moe than me?
              And dupp'd the chamber door,
  BOTTOM. [Awaking] When my cue comes, call me, and I will answer. My
    And happily I have arrived at the last
                 Enter MACMORRIS and CAPTAIN JAMY
    Who knew of your intent and coming hither?
    If with too credent ear you list his songs,
    To lay a heavy and unequal hand

    Into the chapel. I pray you haste in this.
    And I myself secure in grace and favour.
  My heart, mine eye the freedom of that right,
    And half their faces buried in their cloaks,
    Even then this forked plague is fated to us
  KING JOHN. Five moons!
    A Grecian's life hath sunk; for every scruple  
    Whoop'd out of Rome. Now this extremity  
  SERVANT. What, are they dead?
    Farewell, my cousin; farewell, gentle friends.        Exeunt
    And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit
A public road
    But more for that in low simplicity  
<Exit
    Adieu, good Queen; I must attend on Caesar.
  LADY MACDUFF. Why one that swears and lies.
    See! they forsake me. Now the time is come
    Loseth men's hearts, and leaves behind a stain
     Which, if convenience will not allow,
    No way excuse his foils when we do bear

    Some two months hence my will shall here be made.
  Friar. How long hath he been there?
  PRINCE HENRY. Even so must I run on, and even so stop.
    a man is Claudio. I have known when there was no music with him
  SPEED. Sir, we are undone; these are the villains

    Better than he, why, give my horse to Timon,
  MACDUFF. They were suborn'd:
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Do you damn others, and let this damn you,
  PROVOST. [Going] Save your honour!
  DERBY. I Will not rise unless your Highness hear me.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. There, Hastings; I will never more
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    And yet I will not, sith so prettily
      So ridest thou triumphing in my woe.
     At suit of his grey beard-
    Whose figure even this instant cloud puts on
  SICINIUS. He lov'd his mother dearly.
    To him will we prove loyal. Till that time
    But Imogen is your own. Do your best wills,
    Both of my life and office, I have labour'd,
    you mightily hold up) to a contaminated stale, such a one as
                            Re-enter DUKE
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. O, Signior Balthazar, either at flesh or fish,
    Execute all things; for no kind of traffic
  SIR TOBY. Come on, sir; hold.

    Good king, to be so mightily abused!

    Before our army. Thy Pacorus, Orodes,
  ANNE. All men, I hope, live so.
    sham'd that was never gracious; if kill'd, but one dead that is
    There's daggers in men's smiles; the near in blood,

    Of warlike Lucius, and appoint the meeting
                        Exeunt Octavius, Antony, and their Army.

    And then awake as from a pleasant sleep.
    Must fall out with men too. What the declin'd is,
  PISTOL. As nail in door. The things I speak are just.
  CONSTANCE. Lo now! now see the issue of your peace!

    We might recover all our loss again.
    is 'The third pays for all.' The triplex, sir, is a good tripping
Enter PROSPERO and MIRANDA

  Wife. This is the matter- Nurse, give leave awhile,
    It is applied to a deathful wound.
    as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage of  
  CHANCELLOR. My good Lord Archbishop, I am very sorry
    Without much fall of blood; whose guiltless drops
  Pol. He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.
    Than to be butcher of an innocent child.
    ever I see!
    I humbly beseech you, proceed to the affairs of state.
    want none. I shall be with her, I may tell you, by her own
    a woman; besides, he brings his destiny with him.
    Our cannons' malice vainly shall be spent
  Jul. Thou knowest the mask of night is on my face;
    The treacherous manner of his mournful death,

    What will Berowne say when that he shall hear
    Except immortal Caesar, speaking of Brutus
  CADE. What, Buckingham and Clifford, are ye so brave?
  Fal. You rogue, they were bound, every man of them, or I am a Jew
    But it reserv'd some quantity of choice
    Awak'd the sleeping rheum, and so by chance
  CLIFFORD. In vain thou speak'st, poor boy; my father's blood
  KATHERINA. I thank you, sir.
  Laer. Lay her i' th' earth;
                  Enter DUKE, disguised as before
                         CLOWN sings
    Who is't can read a woman? Is there more?
    The other, Walter Whitmore, is thy share.  
    the faster. Thou giv'st so long, Timon, I fear me thou wilt give
ADRIANA. His incivility confirms no less.
  KING PHILIP. And, by my faith, this league that we have made  
    Are worse than devils.
  The sailors sought for safety by our boat,
     What will hap more to-night, safe scape the King!
  BOYET. Renowned Pompey!

ACT V. SCENE 10.
    Of ashy semblance, meagre, pale, and bloodless,
    What the conditions of that league must be.
  LORD. I did.
    In sight of both our battles we may meet;
  Mother. No, not till Thursday. There is time enough.
           Enter Macbeth and a Servant with a torch.
    Men at some time are masters of their fates:
    But see thy fault! France hath in thee found out
    The fairy land buys not the child of me.
    Let hell want pains enough to torture me!
    your worship will take order for the drabs and the knaves, you
    John Cade of Ashford,
  But wrong not that wrong with a more contempt.
    And all their ministers attend on him.
  King. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
    Had you your letters from your wife, my lord?
  OTHELLO.                     O the pernicious caitiff!
  WILLOUGHBY. Base men by his endowments are made great.
  Balthasar, servant to Romeo.
  EVANS. I pray you, have your remembrance, child.
    Are meet for plucking up, and therefore mine.
     His knights grow riotous, and himself upbraids us
                          Enter CORIN
  KING. Let fame, that all hunt after in their lives,
    Upon the left hand of the even field.
  TRANIO. Why, she's a devil, a devil, the devil's dam.
    The captainship, thou shalt be met with thanks,
  FALSTAFF. Yea; I thank your pretty sweet wit for it. But look you
     Hang fated o'er men's faults light on thy daughters!
    Tender your own good fortune?
  Serv. God gi' go-den. I pray, sir, can you read?

  For if it see the rud'st or gentlest sight,
  MACBETH. What is't you say? the life?
     Desire him to go in. Trouble him no more


    And weigh thy value with an even hand.
  CLOWN. Faith, there's a dozen of 'em, with delicate fine hats, and
  BRABANTIO. This thou shalt answer; I know thee, Roderigo.
  To know the reason of this strange restraint.
    And still as you are weary of this weight
    And whatsoever cunning fiend it was
    As doubtful thoughts, and rash-embrac'd despair,
SCENE II.
    this jest will lie the incomprehensible lies that this same fat  

    By the eternal God, whose name and power

    I am no more touch'd than all Priam's sons;
    Why they are so, but, like to village curs,
    To be fantastic may become a youth
    Side-stitches that shall pen thy breath up; urchins
  ROSALIND. Marry, to say she came to seek you there. You shall never
    these letters are in my name. Soft! here follows prose.
  Beat. He were an excellent man that were made just in the midway
    Upon the parting of your wives and you.
    her, and talk'd of Satan, and of Limbo, and of Furies, and I know

    Shall be the general's fault, though he perform
  TROILUS. O, let my lady apprehend no fear! In all Cupid's pageant

  PERDITA. For I have heard it said
    And now chang'd to 'The Beggar and the King.'
    Why dost thou bend thine eyes upon the earth,
ADRIANA. Ah, but I think him better than I say,
  BOLINGBROKE. I swear.

    syllable of our worthiness.
  Lear. I will die bravely, like a smug bridegroom. What!
    Conceiving you. Were I but twenty-one,
  TITUS. If there were reason for these miseries,
Enter YOUNG LUCIUS and LAVINIA running after him,
    The liberal opposition of our spirits,
    Till Suffolk gave two dukedoms for his daughter.

    Of wide Arabia are as throughfares now
  EMILIA. Is not this man jealous?
  KING. Taxation!
    He does fair justice: if he give me way,

  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Stay, yet look back with me unto the
    Thy warlike hand, thy mangled daughter here;

    cuckolds, a thrifty shoeing-horn in a chain, hanging at his
  COUNTESS. Nothing in France until he have no wife!
SCENE IV.
                         Enter PROTEUS  
    Which waste of idle hours hath quite thrown down.
          And what strength I have's mine own,
  CAMILLO. Even he, my lord.
    Ere they lack'd power to cross you.
               Nor the furious winter's rages;
    Whom I believe to be most strait in virtue,
  ANTONY. So to most noble Caesar.
    And in the breath of bitter words let's smother
     We do require them of you, so to use them
                  Enter a SOLDIER of CAESAR'S
  Lear. Prithee away!
    kill'd me.
    True sword to sword, I'll potch at him some way,
    To doubtful fortunes, sequest'ring from me all
    These Lincoln Washes have devoured them;

    To the direction just.
  ANTONY. This is not Brutus, friend, but, I assure you,
  AUSTRIA. Peace! no more.
    would infect my brain, being the herdsmen of the beastly

  BRUTUS. 'Tis very like. He hath the falling sickness.
  Three April perfumes in three hot Junes burned,
    [Kneels] Rise up, Sir John Mortimer. [Rises] Now have at him!
    Could turn so much the constitution
    Foretells the nature of a tragic volume.
    And straightway give thy soul to him thou serv'st.
  John. What life is in that to be the death of this marriage?
    But thieves do lose it. Steal not less for this
     Commanded me to follow and attend
  TRANIO. Shall sweet Bianca practise how to bride it?
  Marg. Well, I will call Beatrice to you, who I think hath legs.
  Laertes, son to Polonius.
    answer?
                                                      [They sit]
    But not possess'd it; and though I am sold,
    an argument that fell out last night, where each of us fell in
    she spun in Ulysses' absence did but fill Ithaca full of moths.
                    Enter WARWICK and Surrey
    Are but as pictures; 'tis the eye of childhood
    I have no mind of feasting forth to-night;
    Friends both, go join you with some further aid.
  ROSALIND. I have promis'd to make all this matter even.
  Good people, enter, and lay hold on him.

  MACBETH. Where?
    The government I cast upon my brother
    To be imprison'd in the viewless winds,
  KING. By heaven, she is a dainty one. Sweet heart,
    But flies an eagle flight, bold and forth on,
    Love make his heart of flint that you shall love;

    The sad-ey'd justice, with his surly hum,
  SHEPHERD. Leave your prating; since these good men are pleas'd, let
  MALCOLM. Be not offended;
    Th' uncivil kerns of Ireland are in arms

             Now am I dead,
    By wicked powers.
  PROSPERO. Now does my project gather to a head;
  BARDOLPH. Ay, sir; I'll call them to you.
    blessed? No; as a wall'd town is more worthier than a village, so

    Be grafted to your relish. Yet welcome, warriors.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Ay, in truth, my lord;
    active fellow in Europe. My womb, my womb, my womb undoes me.

    The tale of Tereus; here the leaf's turn'd down
    With such full licence as both truth and malice
    To whom in favour she shall give the day,
    more of this, Helena; go to, no more, lest it be rather thought
    It was wise nature's end in the donation,
    So far from sounding and discovery,
    I was adopted heir by his consent:  
    Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love.  
    beaten, thou shalt find what it is to be proud of thy bondage. I
  DUKE OF BEDFORD, uncle to the King, and Regent of France
  LAUNCE. More hair than wit. It may be; I'll prove it: the cover of

    As you must needs, for you all cried 'Go, go'-
    Fearing to strengthen that impatience
    painting; and keep not too long in one tune, but a snip and away.
  TOUCHSTONE. 'Thank God.' A good answer.
  AJAX. What wouldst thou?
    When it is lighted, come and call me here.
    That therefore such a writ be sued against you:
    Endur'd of her, for whom you bid like sorrow.
  FIRST LORD. That time serves still.

    To come at traitors' calls, and do them grace.
    Send forth your amorous token for fair Maudlin.
    Soon after that depriv'd him of his life;
    to him as it doth to me; the element shows to him as it doth to
  MONTANO. And 'tis great pity that the noble Moor
  SPEED. For me?
  Mar. 'Tis gone!
    And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
    Provok'd by my offence.
    of the votaries with the King; and here he hath framed a letter
    skirts of it and beat me to death with a bottom of brown bread; I
    The drum your Honour hears marcheth from Warwick.
    Thither go these news as fast as horse can carry them-
    thought to begin from such a cottage.
    From cold and empty veins where no blood dwells;

  GLOUCESTER. Touch'd you the bastardy of Edward's
SCENE 7.
  CELIA. Or rather, bottomless; that as fast as you pour affection  
    And in reguerdon of that duty done
    The dust on antique time would lie unswept,
     And in the most exact regard support
    Opposites against King Henry IV
    Is troth-plight to your daughter. Good Paulina,
    More than to Richmond? For the selfsame heaven
  Prince. We still have known thee for a holy man.
  FIRST LORD. He saves my labour by his own approach.
    With them he enters; who, upon the sudden,
    Be look'd upon and learnt; which once attain'd,


    Only, in lieu thereof, dispatch me hence.
  MACBETH. One cried, "God bless us!" and "Amen" the other,  
    To find out this abuse, whence 'tis deriv'd.
SCENE II.
    More shall they speak; for now I am bent to know,
  Claud. Hath Leonato any son, my lord?  
    Have no delight to pass away the time,
                 Like a mad lad,

  KING HENRY. Say, man, were these thy words?
ACT I. SCENE I.
    The expedition of my violent love
ACT I. SCENE 3.
  FANG. An I but fist him once; an 'a come but within my vice!  
    Or else for want of idle time, could not again reply;
    heart with the looks of an empress; take me by the hand and say
  Mar. Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him.


  MIRANDA. O, wonder!
  CASSIUS. But it is doubtful yet
    By what you see them act. Is there not charms
  Though not to love, yet love to tell me so,
  CAESAR. Let him alone, for I remember now
    So please you, let me now be left alone,

THE END
  KING. My life itself, and the best heart of it,
  PRIEST. A contract of eternal bond of love,
  CLOWN. See, see; what a man you are now! There is no other way but
    Carries no favour in't but Bertram's.
    But we in it shall be remembered-
    He's safe for these three hours.
  Upon the moment did her force subdue,
    Her true perfection, or my false transgression,
    And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
    I bring consuming sorrow to thine age.
  Leon. Hear you, my lords!
    So leaves me to consider what is breeding

                     67
    blow the fire up in Caesar, and, as I said before, that which is
    Betwixt the prince and beggar. I have said
  MARSHAL. My lord, no leave take I, for I will ride
    And say 'Lo, there is mad Petruchio's wife,
  WIDOW. I sweet, good creature, wheresoe'er she is
    Felt so much cold as over shoes in snow?
    Tell him his fears are shallow, without instance;
    Against a change: woe is forerun with woe.
  ESCALUS. Come, sir; did you set these women on to slander Lord
    And bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish, hairs,
  Then fairly I bespoke the officer
    When time shall call him home from banishment,
          Enter the DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER in a white sheet,
                                          Exeunt BUCKINGHAM and train
    Which will become you both, farewell.
  Mess. A lord to a lord, a man to a man; stuff'd with all honourable
  Hot. Revolted Mortimer?
    Proves valueless; you are forsworn, forsworn;
  SON. Why should I, Mother? Poor birds they are not set for.
  CROMWELL. Why, my lord?

  OTHELLO. Hold, for your lives!


  SICINIUS. Was ever man so proud as is this Marcius?
    Which, if he take, shall quite unpeople her
Alarums. Enter Cassius and Titinius.
    And he that is approved in this offense,
    More than mine own; that am, have, and will be-
    Your brother thus; so fought the noble Douglas'-
  TIMON. Near! Why then, another time I'll hear thee. I prithee let's
  JAQUES. I do not desire you to please me; I do desire you to sing.
    That womanhood denies my tongue to tell:
    Upon her gentle bosom, and fill up
    You shall hear more ere morning.
    To fair Bianca, so beloved of me.
  Leon. Drink some wine ere you go. Fare you well.
  QUEEN. Marry, God forfend!
  CASCA,          conspirator against Caesar
    Who, in the conflict that it holds with death,
  Jul. Is there no pity sitting in the clouds
THE TRAGEDY OF ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA
  Ben. Come, he hath hid himself among these trees
  CAMPEIUS. Your Grace must needs deserve an strangers' loves,
    Our duty this way lies. For God's sake, come.  
    The close enacts and counsels of thy heart!
    If promises be kept oil every hand,
  TIMON. Thou sun that comforts, burn. Speak and be hang'd!
  ISABELLA. Not with fond sicles of the tested gold,
    Think you, but that I know our state secure,
    And bid thee battle, Edward, if thou dar'st.
  PISTOL. Say'st thou me so? Is that a ton of moys?
    extend his might only where qualities were level; Diana no queen
    Why seems it so particular with thee?
    Draw them to Tiber banks, and weep your tears  
    These counties were the keys of Normandy!
    So sovereignly being honourable.
    Of raging waste? It cannot hold; it will not.
    pibble-pabble in Pompey's camp; I warrant you, you shall find the

    A critic, nay, a night-watch constable;
    the smirch'd worm-eaten tapestry, where his codpiece seems as  
  QUEEN. He dares not calm his contumelious spirit,
    more of this. Canst thou tell if Claudio die to-morrow or no?
    help'st me not?
    Did run pure blood, and many lusty Romans
    Consisteth of all nations. Therefore, go;
                     49
  Host. O Jesu, this is excellent sport, i' faith!  
    And while the babbling echo mocks the hounds,
    as oft with your master as with my mistress: think I saw your
Warkworth Castle.
    Paris, Guysors, Poictiers, are all quite lost.
    And thence she cannot be convey'd away.  

  Mine own self-love quite contrary I read:
  CAMILLO. I'll do't, my lord.
  HELENA. That you are well restor'd, my lord, I'm glad.
    To act her earthy and abhorr'd commands,
    O Richard! York is too far gone with grief,
    Is dear Lavinia, dearer than my soul.
    In thine own person answer thy abuse.
    Come, lady, I will show thee to my kin;
    Reigns in the hearts of all our present parts.
  NYM. The King hath run bad humours on the knight; that's the even
    take away with thee the very services thou hast done; which if I
    Could be so rarely and exactly wrought,
    But truer stars did govern Proteus' birth;
    We shall be winnow'd with so rough a wind
  CALIBAN. The spirit torments me. O!
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    twenty, good Master Page! Master Page, will you go with
    And your unthought of Harry chance to meet.
  thereof comes that the wenches say 'God damn me!' That's

  LAVINIA. When did the tiger's young ones teach the dam?
    Have by your wisdom been this day acquitted

    embracements of his bed where he would show most love. When yet
                 Item, Bread. . . . . . . . . . . . . .          ob.'

  LUCETTA. Alas, the way is wearisome and long!
    Which is almost to pluck a kingdom down
    she shall not live. No, my heart is turned to stone; I strike it,
  John. Signior, you are very near my brother in his love. He is

  PATROCLUS. What you say to't?
    I never saw the like.
    Which craves as desperate an execution
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    I'll smoke your skin-coat an I catch you right;
    Thou mayst be false, and yet I know it not.
    born, of 'I fear no colours.'
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Well hast thou spoken, cousin; be it so.
    The moon of Rome, chaste as the icicle
    Your precious self had then not cross'd the eyes
  CORNELIUS. The Queen, sir, very oft importun'd me
    read anything you see?
    Whose smile and frown, like to Achilles' spear,
  PANDARUS. Th' other's not come to't; you shall tell me another tale
  HUBERT. Not for my life; but yet I dare defend
  PANDARUS. Not I, honey-sweet queen. I long to hear how they spend

     apprehension.
    As if, with Circe, she would change my shape!
  PISANIO. Be assur'd, madam,
    being foolish, do not derogate.
  CONSTABLE. If the English had any apprehension, they would run
  ROSS. To horse, to horse! Urge doubts to them that fear.
    What rubbish, and what offal, when it serves  
  CYMBELINE. The forlorn soldier, that so nobly fought,
    That with the hurly death itself awakes?
Enter ISABELLA and FRANCISCA
  SECOND SENATOR. Weapons, weapons, weapons!
  THESEUS. Either to die the death, or to abjure
    have no words of it-my master himself is in love with
    Lies heavy on me. O, my heart is sick!
    To free us from his Father's wrathful curse,
  IRAS. There's a palm presages chastity, if nothing else.
    What shall be done? He will not hear till feel.
    Of your great predecessor, King Edward the Third.
  ORLANDO. For ever and a day.
    One general tongue unto us, this good man,

           And pleas'd with what he gets,
    sweet Harry,' says she, 'how many hast thou  kill'd to-day?'
    Even make me wild. O slave, of no more trust
  ANTONIO. My will is something sorted with his wish.
    To re-survey them, we will suddenly
and OFFICERS with POMPEY
  PROTEUS. And I will follow, more for Silvia's love

  PAULINA. A boy?
    And in my conduct shall your ladies come,
    kill thee. I would these garments were come. She said upon a
    'No point' quoth I; my servant straight was mute.
  CRESSIDA. Prithee tarry.
  DIANA. The Count Rousillon. Know you such a one?
  TRANIO. Ay, marry, am I, sir, and now 'tis plotted.
    How long is't now since last yourself and I
    Antony Woodville, her brother there,
    Titus Lartius are set down before their city Corioli; they  
    babes!
    The law, that threat'ned death, becomes thy friend
    Pales in the flood with men, with wives, and boys,
  Prince. Call in the sheriff.
  CALIBAN. Prithee, my king, be quiet. Seest thou here,
  CANIDIUS. Ay, and to wage this battle at Pharsalia,
    Before I be convict by course of law,
  FLORIZEL. Old sir, I know
  HOSTESS. O' my word, Captain, there's none such here. What the
    He hath hereto priz'd them at.
  Ber. It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
     Of the death-practis'd Duke, For him 'tis well
    What mean these masterless and gory swords
    Where manners ne'er were preach'd! Out of my sight!
Exit.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  YORK. Then he is more beholding to you than I.
    Whilst you abide here.

    enough to hang us all.
  DEMETRIUS. You spend your passion on a mispris'd mood:
    Poor boy! he smiles, methinks, as who should say,
    His sorrows have so overwhelm'd his wits,
    Thou dost confirm his happiness for ever.
  TITANIA. Sleep thou, and I will wind thee in my arms.
    I shall re-view Sicilia, for whose sight
  BELARIUS. Pray be not sick,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  DOLABELLA. It is the Emperor, madam.        [CLEOPATPA kneels]
    O! O! O!
    I did beget her, all the parish knows.
    Would lift him where most trade of danger rang'd;  
    And I will take it as a sweet disgrace
    And first, Lord Marshal, what say you to it?
    Or else the law of Athens yields you up-
    Because what follows is pure innocence.
    To suffer with a quietness of spirit
    Chok'd with ambition of the meaner sort;
                                                       Descends.
  ANTONY. Their preparation is to-day by sea;
    the prison, Pompey. You will turn good husband now, Pompey; you
    what he said. No, I'll no swagg'rers.
    danger.
    Thou foul accursed minister of hell!
 Exit
    When thou wak'st, it is thy dear.
    swallow my sword like a great pin ere thou and I part.
  TOUCHSTONE. By my troth, well met. Come sit, sit, and a song.
    When thou com'st thither-  [To CATESBY]  Dull,
    Forestall our sport, to make us thus untrue?
    Which he shall have. I'll pay the debt, and free him.
    been grievously peaten as an old oman; methinks there
    'Tis hatch'd, and shall be so. Tranio, at once
    Farewell, my lord. I as your lover speak.
    By watching, weeping, tendance, kissing, to
    Bardolph, Peto, and Gadshill shall rob those men that we have
  BUTTS.  [Aside]  This is a piece of malice. I am glad  
    Knows not which way to stand, to look, to speak.
    Come here for physic.
  LUCULLUS. [Aside] One of Lord Timon's men? A gift, I warrant. Why,
    Not dry.
    Chalks successors their way, nor call'd upon
  Sailor. God bless you, sir.
    Brach Merriman, the poor cur, is emboss'd;
    To our fast-closed gates; for at this match  
    Wilt thou not stoop? Now cursed be the time
    To you, my lord, I come-what lord you will-
    I with great truth catch mere simplicity;
    Thanks you for this great care; I stood i' th' level
    With eyes wide open; standing, speaking, moving,
    She either gives a stomach and no food-
    And make rough winter everlastingly.
  CHIRON

    The time is fair again.
  WILLIAM. A pebble.
    When weeping made you break the story off,
  IAGO. I never knew a woman love man so.
    all the serpentine craft of thy caduceus, if ye take not that
    I could not sleep.
  CAMILLO. Swear his thought over
  PETER. I thank you all. Drink, and pray for me, I pray you; for I
    To outface me with leaping in her grave?
    fool you were upon the ground.
    fairly in jest.
  SILVIA. Too low a mistress for so high a servant.
    I dare presume, sweet prince, he thought no harm.
    How far hence is thy lord, mine honest fellow?
  ORLEANS. What's he?
    There do I give to you and Jessica,
  Gon. Take you some company, and away to horse!
    The princely Warwick, and the Nevils all,

    To show the world I am a gentleman.
  APEMANTUS. Time to be honest.
  BOLINGBROKE. An offer, uncle, that we will accept.
    His heart, like an agate, with your print impressed,
    physician to comment on your malady.
     Thy dow'rless daughter, King, thrown to my chance,
      away.
    What wrongs our arms may do, what wrongs we suffer,
    That you foresee not what impediments
  EVANS. Nay, it is petter yet. Give her this letter; for it is a
  LE BEAU. Even he, madam.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  ORLEANS. Ill-wind never said well.
    I prithee grieve to make me merry, York.
    Well, go, prepare yourself. [Knocking within] But hark, what
    And will not palter? And what other oath
     I'll tell thee thou dost evil.
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY, SIMPLE, and RUGBY
    This tongue that runs so roundly in thy head
    and yet he'll be crowing as if he had writ man ever since his

    Sirrah, go see what trumpet 'tis that sounds-  
    I thought that all things had been savage here,

    False fiend, avoid!       Thunder and lightning. Exit SPIRIT
    To think that or our cause or our performance
    An if thy stumps will let thee play the scribe.
    Are to the jealous confirmations strong
    not fight; but I will wink and hold out mine iron. It is a simple
    are done and past, and his estate shrinks from him.
  ANNE. And thou unfit for any place but hell.
  Rom. Neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike.
    Portia, adieu! I have too griev'd a heart
  QUEEN MARGARET. From such a cause as fills mine eyes with tears
  PISTOL. Trail'st thou the puissant pike?
  LUCIO. Sir, I was an inward of his. A shy fellow was the Duke; and

    Pompey is uncasing for the combat? What mean you? You will lose
  VALENTINE. Ay, my good lord.
    Be call'd Posthumus Leonatus, and
  KING. Are these things then necessities?
    troth-plight to her.  
  QUEEN MARGARET. Nay, stay; let's hear the orisons he makes.  
    If you'll stand fast we'll beat them to their wives,
    Which I with some unwillingness pronounce:
    banes- such a commodity of warm slaves as had as lieve hear the
    Think it an altar, and thy brother Troilus
  CRESSIDA. Why, beg then.
             With bloodless stroke my heart doth gore;
    Eight thousand and four hundred; of the which
    between jet and ivory; more between your bloods than there is
  Even so my sun one early morn did shine,
    For aye to be shady cloister mew'd,  
    Have thirty miles to ride yet ere dinner time.  
    In quarter, and in terms like bride and groom
  DIANA. Will you not, my lord?
    Thou call'dst me up at midnight to fetch dew
  CATESBY. My good lords both, with all the heed I can.
        Youth so apt to pluck a sweet.
    Made prize and purchase of his wanton eye,
  Leon. Confirm'd, confirm'd! O, that is stronger made  

  Ham. Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
             For the rain it raineth every day.  
    But thou shalt have; and creep time ne'er so slow,  
    As thoughts of things divine, are intermix'd
                 Enter SIR NATHANIEL, for ALEXANDER
    I mean, your voice for crowning of the King.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

  STANLEY. Sir Christopher, tell Richmond this from me:
  BIANCA. Sister, content you in my discontent.
    Plough Rome and harrow Italy; I'll never
    Hal'd thither  
    Could not have laid such terms upon his callet.
  BOATSWAIN. None that I more love than myself. You are
    Diseased nature oftentimes breaks forth
    She knew her distance, and did angle for me,
    powers. For my sake be comfortable; hold death awhile at the
  ANNE. That shalt thou know hereafter.
  To put the by-past perils in her way?
  FEEBLE. Faith, I'll bear no base mind.
    husband now?

  
    Are you so hot? Marry come up, I trow.
    To see me pay his debt, and then I care not.          Exeunt


  FABIAN. Now, as thou lov'st me, let me see his letter.
    For which the youthful lover now is gone,
    The knights and gentlemen to come with thee.
    Methinks he looks as though he were in love.
  BERTRAM. How have I sworn!
                                                [CALIBAN drinks]
ACT IV. SCENE I.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  DUKE SENIOR. Come, shall we go and kill us venison?
    The higher our opinion, that our stirring
  Gon. My most dear Gloucester!
    What, all in motion? Henceforth be no feast
    Look how thou diest. Look how thy eye turns pale.
                         Enter RICHARD
    No more my king, for he dishonours me,
  MARCUS. This was the sport, my lord: when Publius shot,
    I'll dispose of you. Gentlemen, go muster up your men
The court of TITUS' house
    Because she brought stone jugs and no seal'd quarts.
    Like fragments in hard voyages, became
    When Bolingbroke rode on roan Barbary-
                                                         Exeunt LORDS
    Mine arms about that body, where against
    Now for a while farewell, good Duke of York.
  OTHELLO.                       Ha, ha, false to me?
  Now am I Dromio and his man unbound.


    When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
    Been sworn my soldier, bidding me depend
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  APEMANTUS. Dost dialogue with thy shadow?
    Of health and living now begins to mend,
    Whereof we have ta'en good, and good store- of all
    Deserve such pity of him as the wolf

  LORENZO. Fair ladies, you drop manna in the way
  BRUTUS. Go not home.
    I wonder at this haste, that I must wed
                                       [Taking off her bracelet]
    You won it, wore it, kept it, gave it me;
    That it is meet so few should fetch the Prince.
  PAROLLES. By the hand of a soldier, I will undertake it.
    Of treasonous malice.
SCENE II.
    not of him in the court. Let me speak with the gentlemen;
    But Exeter hath given the doom of death
    Than Bargulus, the strong Illyrian pirate.
    And a thousand vagram posies.

    Achilles.  
    reign.
    Stay and be secret, and myself will go.
    full of unmannerly sadness in his youth. I had rather be married
    Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
           [Burden: Ding-dong.]


    An armour all of gold; it was a king's.
  KING JOHN. We like not this: thou dost forget thyself.
  CRESSIDA. It is no matter.


    Clamber not you up to the casements then,
    A very little little let us do,
    And none of you will bid the winter come
    They lie indrench'd. I tell thee I am mad
  DUKE. O heavens! what stuff is here?
    'Gainst me that I cannot take peace with. No black envy
  HOSTESS. Yea, in truth, my lord.
  MALVOLIO. Has been told so; and he says he'll stand at your door
  Beyond imagination is the wrong
    And that his country's dearer than himself;
  
    We'll send Mark Antony to the Senate House,
  BRUTUS. With what addition?
  CHIRON. I warrant you, madam, we will make that sure.
 Exit

  LEONTES. Proceed.
    When he intendeth to become the field;
  COUNTESS. Do you cry 'O Lord, sir!' at your whipping, and 'spare
  GUILDFORD. Ladies, a general welcome from his Grace
             Ever shall be fortunate.  
    To thy good truth and honor. Devilish Macbeth
    Its tenderness, and make itself a pastime
  VALENTINE. The tenour of them doth but signify
  DUMAIN. More calf, certain.
  Reg. Out, treacherous villain!
    In this sad wreck? How came't? Who is't? What art thou?
    Authority melts from me. Of late, when I cried 'Ho!'
  KING HENRY. God-a-mercy, old heart! thou speak'st cheerfully.
  Poins. Mark, Jack.
    him and drown him, he drowns not himself. Argal, he that is not
    Neither regarding that she is my child
    Mine honour for his truth; who being so heighten'd,
                       [The SENATORS descend and open the gates]
    too unhurtful an opposite. But, indeed, I can do you little harm:
  LAFEU. He hath abandon'd his physicians, madam; under whose
                       Re-enter EROS
  MIRANDA. At mine unworthiness, that dare not offer
    Thou needs must be englutted. Besides, in mercy,
    To him that owes it, namely, this young prince;
  ARVIRAGUS. In this place we left them.
    And, fly thou how thou canst, they'll tangle thee.
    Somewhither would she have thee go with her.
    Warwick may lose that now hath won the day.
  FABIAN. Ay, an you had any eye behind you, you might see more
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
         Grace to stand, and virtue go;  
    He is a man. I'll love him as my brother;
                   Is too much for a score
    and aunt-mother are deceiv'd.
    And seeing thou dost, I here divorce myself,
    eyes? Do you know what a man is? Is not birth, beauty, good
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. Come, let's do so,
  SECOND CITIZEN. Nay, but speak not maliciously.
    LADY FAULCONBRIDGE, widow of Sir Robert Faulconbridge
  CALIBAN. Within this half hour will he be asleep.
    But for these instances:



LUCIANA. How many fond fools serve mad jealousy!
  SHEPHERD. They call him Doricles, and boasts himself
    soul, had as lieve see a toad, a very toad, as see him. I anger
    But you misuse the reverence of your place,
  KING. He hath arm'd our answer,
    Be so perfidious. He, whom next thyself
    Trail your steel pikes. Though in this city he
    That with the King here resteth in his tent?
    For thou thyself hast been a libertine,
    To chide at your extremes it not becomes me-
    The day frowns more and more. Thou'rt like to have
    And if their wisdoms be misled in this,
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. No. The Princess hearing of her mother's statue,
    you did bring me out.
  With my extern the outward honouring,
    Would serve to scale another Hero's tow'r,
    And I have thrust myself into this maze,
  1. Car. Heigh-ho! an it be not four by the day, I'll be hang'd.
    And yet she is inferior to none.
    Of love, of worldly matters and direction,
  NYM. Slice, I say! pauca, pauca; slice! That's my humour.
    Let it suffice thee that I trust thee not.
    illumineth the face, which, as a beacon, gives warning to all the
    Enlarged him, and made a friend of him,  
  Host. So he doth you, my lord, and said this other day you ought
    glosses, being rather new-dy'd, than stain'd with salt

    Good things of day begin to droop and drowse,
  DULL. 'Tis true, indeed; the collusion holds in the exchange.
    To Milan let me hear from thee by letters
    to say what methought I had. The eye of man hath not heard, the
          Alarum. The Romans are beat back to their trenches.
    Upon remainder of a dear account
ANGELO. Upon what cause?
  PAGE. Not by my consent, I promise you. The gentleman is
    Must I observe you? Must I stand and crouch
    out of love with your nativity, and almost chide God for making
    To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind,
    As all the tuned spheres, and that to friends;
    With burdens of the dead- some that were hang'd,
     Let shame come when it will, I do not call it.
  ARMADO. Call'st thou my love 'hobby-horse'?
    When waterdrops have worn the stones of Troy,
    Who found this letter? Tamora, was it you?

    And therein do account myself well paid.
  Claud. Thou thinkest I am in sport. I pray thee tell me truly how
    While I remain above the ground you shall  
    And am right glad to catch this good occasion
    would call 'abbominable.' It insinuateth me of insanie: ne
  FIRST MURDERER. 'Tis, my good lord.  
    She had all the royal makings of a queen:
    Think all but one, and me in that one 'Will.'
     Thy token of reprieve.
    So full of fearful dreams, of ugly sights,
    As it is like him, might break out and swear
    In cradle clothes our children where they lay,
  GREMIO. No, say'st me so, friend? What countryman?
    How fine my master is! I am afraid
    world.

    Shall Romeo by my letters know our drift;
  Hor. Why, what a king is this!
    To furnish him with an appertinents
    To be the dowry of a second head-
    You great benefactors, sprinkle our society with thankfulness.
 CANTERBURY. Hear him but reason in divinity,
  GREEN. That he, our hope, might have retir'd his power
             Alexandria. Before CLEOPATRA's palace
    Of our despis'd nobility, our issues,
    rascals that ran from the battle ha' done this slaughter;
    Measur'd, to look upon you; whom he loves,
    these engines of lust, are not the things they go under; many a
  Hot. I do not care. I'll give thrice so much land
    The letter, at Sir Toby's great importance,
  ROSALIND. I would we could do so; for her benefits are mightily
    of his hat; it ever changes with the next block.

    Then, lest he may, prevent. And, since the quarrel
    And all the other by-dependences,
    Made to the Queen to call back her appeal
    For barbarous and unnatural revolts
    The villain is much lighter heel'd than I.
    No sheep, sweet lamb, unless we feed on your lips.
  O no, it is an ever-fixed mark
    A warrant for his execution.
  VENTIDIUS. Now, darting Parthia, art thou struck, and now
    For he is set so only to himself
    As I by thine a wife. This is a match,
    Preserv'd the Britons, was the Romans' bane.'
  SECOND WATCH. The worthy fellow is our general; he's the rock, the
    Your bondage happy, to be made a queen?
    It wounds thine honour that I speak it now-
  RATCLIFF. Come, come, dispatch; the Duke would be at
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
             Thou to me thy secrets tell.
  DIANA. Ay, so you serve us
    When first I did embrace him; yet his nature
    Yet I am none. Whose tongue soe'er speaks false,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Last longer telling than thy kindness' date.
  VOLUMNIA. He had rather see the swords and hear a drum than look  
    Or else for ever be confixed here,
    As place Duke Humphrey for the King's Protector?  
    Your hazard shall be made.
    But you, my honourable lords, may name the time;
  Lear. What says the fellow there? Call the clotpoll back.
  GLOUCESTER. Methought this staff, mine office-badge in court,
    Bruise me with scorn, confound me with a flout,
  LEONTES. Go, do our bidding; hence!
  AGAMEMNON. This shall be told our lovers, Lord Aeneas.
    What light is light, if Silvia be not seen?
    On the curl'd clouds. To thy strong bidding task
    On which I must fall down, or else o'erleap,
  ALL. Stand back; room, bear back!
    More worthier than their voices. They know the corn
  SATURNINUS. My brother dead! I know thou dost but jest:
    Legitimation, name, and all is gone.
    looks. If then the tree may be known by the fruit, as the fruit
    The whole world shall not save him.
    All's hush'd as midnight yet.  
    For some displeasing service I have done,
    Look, here comes a lover of mine, and a lover of hers.
    When through proud London he came sighing on
    'Tis sin to flatter; 'good' was little better.
    With fear and horrid flight.
London. The palace
    or in bastinado, or in steel; I will bandy with thee in faction;
  ANTONY. So is my horse, Octavius, and for that
    Give me my father!
    Expresseth his full tilth and husbandry.
    Not being torn a pieces, we have done.  
    I have travell'd but two hours.
  CAMPEIUS. Your fears are worse.
    Let's lack no discipline, make no delay;
    Thou divine Nature, thou thyself thou blazon'st

    As his composure must be rare indeed
    Is at last gasp. Return he cannot, nor
    To have mistrusted her; yet, O my daughter!
    Blessing upon your vows; and in your bed
    When subtle Greeks surpris'd King Priam's Troy.
  KING. 'which, as I remember, hight Costard,'
  DAVY.  [To BARDOLPH]  There's a dish of leather-coats for you.

    These evils thou repeat'st upon thyself

    And pray'd me oft forbearance; did it with
  But be contented when that fell arrest,
  MARCUS. My lord, I aim a mile beyond the moon;
  PETRUCHIO. Is not this well? Come, my sweet Kate:
  OTHELLO. I gave her such a one; 'twas my first gift.  
    And peg thee in his knotty entrails, till
    Enlarge the man committed yesterday
    Till you conclude that he upon whose side
    To enter conquerors, and to proclaim
  Edm. I hope, for my brother's justification, he wrote this but as
  CLOTEN. Come, I'll go see this Italian. What I have lost to-day at
  Ben. At this same ancient feast of Capulet's
    Monmouth.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
     father in my love.
  BASSANIO. Shylock, do you hear?
    Of our dominions; and that there thou leave it,
    I am your better, traitors as ye are;
    And more and less do flock to follow him.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    'Poor deer,' quoth he 'thou mak'st a testament
    I love this youth, and I have heard you say
    Yet, as we may, we'll meet both thee and Warwick.
    Child of integrity, hath from my soul
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    When Clifford cannot spare his friends an oath.
    And to proclaim it civilly were like
                        Enter KATHERINA
  PISTOL. All hell shall stir for this.
                                                GREEN, and BAGOT
    And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
    With all the strength and armour of the mind
  CELIA. What shall I call thee when thou art a man?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. For gazing on your beams, fair sun, being by.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  MENELAUS, his brother
  CASSIUS. Then, with your will, go on;
1603
    Into two parties, is now conjoin'd in one,
    'When he' quoth she 'shall split thy heart with sorrow,
  KING. What's he comes here?
    speak like an Anthropophaginian unto thee. Knock, I say.
  FREDERICK. Thus do all traitors;
   Piece out our imperfections with your thoughts:
    And he but naked, though lock'd up in steel,  
    And, in that kind, swears you do more usurp

    So stumblest on my counsel?
  Jul. I' faith, I am sorry that thou art not well.
    O, now I would they had chang'd voices too,
  GRUMIO. I cannot tell; I fear 'tis choleric.
    I'd not believe thee. Henceforth guard thee well;
    promise him an excellent piece.  
    Of thy adverse pernicious enemy.
    As what I think might be, but what I know
  CORIOLANUS. So then the Volsces stand but as at first,
    This sickly land might solace as before.
    When we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two
    Will follow mine, if once they see them spread;
  MENENIUS. True! I'll be sworn they are true. Where is he wounded?
    And in conclusion drove us to seek out
  TAMORA. What, are they in this pit? O wondrous thing!  
    Couch we awhile, and mark.
    Why this should be. I therefore vouch again
    Am that way going to temptation
    and my heart of steel,
  MRS. FORD. Nay, good sweet husband! Good gentlemen, let
    So, now dismiss your army when ye please;
    Than those that have more cunning to be strange.


  Alb. Sir, by your patience,
    stitches, follow me. Yond gull Malvolio is turned heathen, a very
                          Enter a MESSENGER

  Though in thy store's account I one must be,
    Who they should be that have thus mangled you?
    Good father Cardinal, cry thou 'amen'
    Now, sir, her father counts it dangerous
     I'ld shake it on this quarrel.  
  LAUNCELOT. By your leave, sir.
    seem'd dead we did but sleep; advantage is a better soldier than
    grant them a fair departure.
  EROS. There's strange news come, sir.
    He's gentle, and not fearful.
  Hot. By heaven, methinks it were an easy leap
      The poor advanc'd makes friends of enemies;
and divers other LADIES and GENTLEMEN, as guests, at one door;
    And both against the peace of heaven and him
    And wound our tott'ring colours clearly up,
ADRIANA. Then let your servants bring my husband forth.
    The jaws of darkness do devour it up;
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  CHANCELLOR. This is too much;
    Dissolve my life! The next Caesarion smite!
  ROSALIND. There is none of my uncle's marks upon you; he taught me
    We shall be joyful of thy company.
  SIR TOBY. Wouldst thou not be glad to have the niggardly rascally
    Of me more must be heard of, say I taught thee-
    The eldest son and heir of John of Gaunt,
    Reign in all bosoms, that, each heart being set
    with the buttock of the night than with the forehead of the
    Ergo I come with this apology.
    I cannot speak enough of this content;
    For her perfections. But my revenge will come.
     By no means what?
SCENE 2
    A yielding 'gainst some reason in my breast,
    But when we in our viciousness grow hard-
    Show a fair presence and put off these frowns,
    Suggest his soon-believing adversaries,
              THE ORDER OF THE CORONATION.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Speak terms of manage to thy bounding steed,
    manner and form following. Now, sir, for the manner- it is the
    Err in report of us.
  ROSALIND. I would try, if I could cry 'hem' and have him.  
    I slew him not, but to my own disgrace  
    A station like the herald Mercury
    That I may live and say 'The dog is dead.'
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. When she shall challenge this, you will reject
    revolt of mine is dangerous. That is my true humour.
  QUEEN ISABEL. You English princes an, I do salute you.
    Or else the devil will make a grandsire of you.
    boy to them all three; but all they three, though they would
    Hap what hap may, I'll roundly go about her;
    and against your cony-catching rascals, Bardolph, Nym,
    Only thus much I give your Grace to know:
    Come not near him. [To the POET] If thou wouldst not reside
    since. Why do your dogs bark so? Be there bears i' th'

  MIRANDA. Would I might  

    you wearied your parishioners withal, and never cried 'Have
    Prepare her ears to hear a wooer's tale;
    I say, my lord, they have deserved death.
  Laer. He is justly serv'd.
    And, with the rest full-mann'd, from th' head of Actium
    Thoughts high for one so tender- cleft the heart
    Than now to see you here an iron man,
    The common muck of the world. He covets less
  Nurse. O Lord, I could have stay'd here all the night
    Thy balm wash'd off wherewith thou wast anointed.

    Thine being but a moiety of my moan-
    sport and revels his addiction leads him; for besides these
    Will you, I pray, demand that demi-devil
    Bear hence his body; I will help to bury it.
  DUKE. 'Tis meet so, daughter; but lest you do repent

    But I persuaded them, if they lov'd Benedick,
  Ham. Up from my cabin,
  CASSIO. Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking?
    ear of man hath not seen, man's hand is not able to taste, his
    me; I'll. tell you all, Master Brook. Since I pluck'd geese,
    A third is fled--that had a hand in it.
  How can I then return in happy plight
    your lordship to remain with me tal they meet together.
    Your Highness aims at, if I aim aright.
    not Marcius.
  BIANCA. Cambio is chang'd into Lucentio.
  Fran. For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
    will this Feeble, the woman's tailor, run off! O, give me the
  LODOVICO. O thou Othello, that wert once so good,
    Than gilt his trophy. The breasts of Hecuba,
       To contract- O- the time for- a- my behove,

    Murder'd her kinsman. O, tell me, friar, tell me,  
    Were feverous and did tremble.
  TROILUS. Why, there you touch'd the life of our design.
    A comfort of retirement lives in this.
    very valiant trencherman; he hath an excellent stomach.
    With all the gracious utterance thou hast
    That is my brother's plea, and none of mine;
    Thrust those reproachful speeches down his throat
  BUCKINGHAM. What, is he fled? Go some, and follow him;
  FOOL. I do not always follow lover, elder brother, and woman;
  DECIUS. Most mighty Caesar, let me know some cause,
  KING RICHARD. Slave, I have set my life upon a cast
  LODOVICO. I am sorry that I am deceived in him.             Exeunt.
     Prithee, nuncle, keep a schoolmaster that can teach thy fool to

    notwithstanding the poor and untempering effect of my visage. Now
    So hated, and so banish'd. But he has a merit
  SALERIO. My lord, here stays without
    'Tis but the fate of place, and the rough brake

    whilst I have a tooth in my head. Why, he's able to lead her a
    For Clarence is well-spoken, and perhaps
    Except a sword or sceptre balance it.
    And frantic outrage, end thy damned spleen,
    Stoop with oppression of their prodigal weight;  
    anon.
    A shield as hard as his. A certain number,
    So, by my former lecture and advice,
    For Hector in his blaze of wrath subscribes
    Can tell so much, shall Banquo's issue ever
    as the nail to his hole, the cuckold to his horn, as a scolding
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Ah, he is young; and his minority

    Tell me how Wales was made so happy as
    I'll write to him a very taunting letter,
    Thou shalt be master, Tranio, in my stead,
  CORNELIUS. Your Highness
    Yet, after all comparisons of truth,
  ROBIN. Sir, here's a woman would speak with you.
                                              [They stand aloof]
    To keep itself from noyance; but much more
    As calling home our exiled friends abroad
  
    An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
    In vaults and prisons, and to thrill and shake
    Who is sweet Fortune's minion and her pride;
  FORD.  [Aside]  I think I shall drink in pipe-wine first with
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    chape of his dagger.
    Whilst by a slave, no gender than my dog,  
    For by these blessed candles of the night,
    cut, and works to be done; and there ish nothing done, so Chrish
    Taken to wife; nor have we herein barr'd
    The soldier's virtue, rather makes choice of loss

    How say you to a fat tripe finely broil'd?

  EVANS. For shame, oman.
  MRS. FORD. You use me well, Master Ford, do you?
    The last true duties of thy noble son!
                            Enter PANTHINO
    As fire drives out fire, so pity pity-
    The sly slow hours shall not determinate
    Saw his heroical seed, and smil'd to see him,
    On the forefinger of an alderman,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Prepare, I say. I thank you, gracious lords,
    The Hyrcanian deserts and the vasty wilds
  DAUPHIN. Some of them will fall to-morrow, I hope.
  FIRST GUARD. Approach, ho! All's not well: Caesar's beguil'd.
  ROSALINE. My physic says 'ay.'
    So many of his shadows thou hast met,
    Take honour from me, and my life is done:
    a fairer name than French crown. I will never buy and sell out of
    But, God be thank'd, there is no need of me-
  Lear. Then there's life in't. Nay, an you get it, you shall get it
    Even at the base of Pompey's statue,
    But little thinks we shall be of her council.
    Then hast thou all again. Poor lord! is't
  Jul. O, bid me leap, rather than marry Paris,
  DAVY.  [Exit DAVY]  Where are you, Sir John? Come, come, come, off
    And hear your mother's lamentation.
    Fated to th' purpose, did Antonio open
               Tongue, not a word.
    Before I have shook off the regal thoughts
    No woman may approach his silent court.
  Pet. Pretty too! What say you, James Soundpost?

    And for my tidings gave me twenty kisses.

    O' th' dreadful thunder-claps, more momentary
  COUNTESS. To be young again, if we could, I will be a fool in
    And recks not his own rede.
    The murderers, EXTON and servants, rush in, armed
  LAUNCE. Why, stand-under and under-stand is all one.
    not-pated, agate-ring, puke-stocking, caddis-garter,
    And violation of all faith and troth
  DEMETRIUS. Stay on thy peril; I alone will go.            Exit
    By certain scales i' th' pyramid; they know
    Looks on alike.  [To FLORIZEL]  Will't please you, sir, be gone?

  GRUMIO
    That which I show, heaven knows, is merely love,  
    And like true subjects, sons of your progenitors,
  VALENTINE. Ay, Proteus, but that life is alter'd now;
    Deputing Cassio in his government.
    Our business valued, some twelve days hence
    With dull unwillingness to repay a debt
  CLEOPATRA. In praising Antony I have disprais'd Caesar.
    With edge of penny cord and vile reproach.
Camp near Sardis. Before Brutus' tent. Drum.
    And publish it that she is dead indeed;
    Misshapen in the conduct of them both,
    To Roger Earl of March, who was the son
    Made proud by princes, that advance their pride
    bellow for revenge.
  Mine appetite I never more will grind
  BOYET. Ladies, withdraw; the gallants are at hand.
    get you in. I will not long be troubled with you; you shall have
  HERALD. Give way there, and go on.
    Good heaven, the souls of all my tribe defend
    For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes
  ENOBARBUS. O, bear me witness, night-
    So, were there a patch set on learning, to see him in a school.
    All seals and symbols of redeemed sin,
    O boy, thy father gave thee life too soon,
    As level as the cannon to his blank,
  PISTOL. As good a gentleman as the Emperor.
  KING HENRY. Uncle, how now!
    And this word 'love,' which greybeards call divine,
  Abetting him to thwart me in my mood!
    Scratch thee but with a pin, and there remains
    It is impossible to bear it out.
    To lesson me and tell me some good mean
    Our own love waking cries to see what's done,
    Congreeing in a full and natural close,
    To strew him o'er and o'er!
    But not the form of what he should attend.
    Were gracious in those princely eyes of thine,
    That he should come about your royal person
    My due from thee is this imperial crown,
  WILLOUGHBY. Nay, let us share thy thoughts as thou dost ours.
    Say I fear'd Caesar, honor'd him, and loved him.
    curate and your sweet self are good at such eruptions and sudden
    That seeming to be most which we indeed least are.
                 Jack shall have Jill;
  KATHERINE. Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France?
    sheep.
    Which trades to Venice. Waste no time in words,
  PAGE. 'Tis true, Master Shallow.
    I would to God my heart were flint like Edward's,
    Be bold you do so grow in my requital
    life- I for a valiant lion, and thou for a true prince. But, by

    That doth accuse his master of high treason;
  HERMIA. What! Can you do me greater harm than hate?
    Upon enforcement flies with greatest speed,
    I will not marry yet; and when I do, I swear
    Who is as free from touch or soil with her
  Dost thou desire my slumbers should be broken,
    Which, as the dearest issue of his practice,
    It was a worthy building. How? a page?  
    [To RICHMOND]  Sleep, Richmond, sleep in peace, and
  PAROLLES. Nay, you need not to stop your nose, sir; I spake but by

    wreck'd at sea, having in that perished vessel the dowry of his
  Antipholus, thou cam'st from Corinth first?
  CASSIO.                       I am much bound to you.
    Lie hid moe thousand deaths; yet death we fear,
  
    entreats.  
Enter two GENTLEMEN, meeting one another
    but see you at my death. Notwithstanding, use your pleasure; if
    a husband!'
  Poins. You will, chops?
    taught them me. This is the right fencing grace, my lord; tap for
  ANNE. Good lady,
  OTHELLO.                Dost thou hear, Iago?
  WARWICK. They mock thee, Clifford; swear as thou wast wont.
    That not a tear can fall for Rutland's death?
    questions?
    God save you, pilgrim! Whither are bound?
    Talk not to me; I will go sit and weep,
     'Twixt two extremes of passion, joy and grief,
    Stand from him, give him air; he'll straight be well.
  Jul. That is no slander, sir, which is a truth;  
  DESDEMONA. Faith, that's with watching; 'twill away again.
  MACDUFF. Carried to Colmekill,

    Beautiful tyrant! fiend angelical!
    My Icarus, my blossom, in his pride.  
    Promises Britain peace and plenty.
  TITUS. So so, now sit; and look you eat no more
    Unsheathe your sword and dub him presently.
    And if the boy have not a woman's gift  
    For love of you, not hate unto my friend,
    Death hath not struck so fat a deer to-day,
    At whose approach ghosts, wand'ring here and there,
  PANDARUS. She prais'd his complexion above Paris.
    But edifies another with her deeds.              Exeunt severally

    Ne'er issu'd from his blood. Take my defiance;

    That John may stand then, Arthur needs must fall;
    There is a monastery two miles off,
    Or else was wrangling Somerset in th' error?
    They say it is a copy out of mine. Come, Captain,
                            Enter the KING
    I must employ you in some business
    for the half of my dowry.
    And so, away; no farther with your din
    And that in way of caution- I must tell you
  Oph. My lord, I have remembrances of yours
  MARIANA. O my dear lord,
  Much liker than your painted counterfeit:
    The storm is up, and all is on the hazard.
    For a second course of fight.
    Oppos'd, as it must be, by th' pow'r of the King.

    And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.  
    My friends,
    And all the faith, the virtue of my heart,
    courtesy of it is so fearful. Speak your office.
    Compared with loss of thee, will not seem so.
    That bring these tidings to this fair assembly.
SCENE IV.
    was there ever man a coward that hath drunk so much sack
  LEONTES. Traitors!
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. Their coronets say so. These are stars indeed,
    Well, bring our lady hither to our sight;

    Is able with the change to kill and cure.

    Knowing all measures, the full Caesar will
     When false opinion, whose wrong thought defiles thee,
                                                     [Trumpets cease]
    reckon my groans; but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
    Hath yet the deputy sent my brother's pardon?
    Attend the sequel of your imposition,
    Our youth got me to play the woman's part,
     Whom I have ever honour'd as my king,
  BERTRAM. Why, if you have a stomach, to't, monsieur. If you think
    It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
    wrangle with mine own honesty. I'll entertain myself like
  Par. My father Capulet will have it so,
    Which, like a fountain with an hundred spouts,
  To what you will, to you it doth belong,
  NATHANIEL. Very reverent sport, truly; and done in the testimony of
  EXETER. It follows, then, the cat must stay at home;
    As is the bud bit with an envious worm
    Thou art a guard too wanton for the head
    and on. By this light, thou shalt be my lieutenant,
    I must needs say you have a little fault.
    Thus violently redress.
    Come, bring your luggage nobly on your back.
  Ben. Tybalt, here slain, whom Romeo's hand did stay.
Scene III.
  Let not my love be called idolatry,
    Maine, Blois, Poictiers, and Tours, are won away
  HORNER. Masters, I am come hither, as it were, upon my man's
    Shaken with sorrows in ungrateful Rome.
  Gon. No.
  AGAMEMNON. [Aside] He will be the physician that should be the  
    My father and Glendower being both away,
    everything illegitimate. One bear will not bite another, and

    Of sorriest fancies your companions making,
    Of their friends' gift?
  To mourn for me since mourning doth thee grace,
     To shake all cares and business from our age,
    Must justify my knowledge.
    The Duke's in council, and your noble self,
    But if you fail, without more speech, my lord,
    And slay thy lady that in thy life lives,
    Whilst we by Antony are all enclosed.
    Made to his mistress' eyebrow. Then a soldier,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  POMPEY. Indeed, it does stink in some sort, sir; but yet, sir,

    By your leave, gods, this is a Roman's part.
    The knowledge of your mistress home, I grant
    Is so from word to word; and then you cannot,
  LONGAVILLE. You swore to that, Berowne, and to the rest.
    I am his fortune's vassal and I send him  
    Sweet flattery, then she loves but me alone.
    Am I the master here, or you? Go to!
PROLOGUE
    In high-born words, the worth of many a knight
    Our duty is so rich, so infinite,  
    His death was so effected. Better 'twere
    And dout them with superfluous courage, ha!
Rousillon. The COUNT'S palace
    To reconcile me to his friendly peace:
    To stop affliction, let him take his haste,
    Then, Antony- but now. Well, on.                      Exeunt
  REIGNIER. Shall we disturb him, since he keeps no mean?
  FALSTAFF. Ten and eleven. Woman, commend me to her; I
    honour's reverence, for stew'd prunes. Sir, we had but two in the
  SIR TOBY. I'll make the motion. Stand here, make a good show on't;  
    he frets like a gumm'd velvet.
    Death and destruction dogs thee at thy heels;
  Gent. No, my good lord; I met him back again.
  CLARENCE. In sign of truth, I kiss your Highness' hand.
    From my remembrance. And, besides, the King

    To bring thee to the gallows, not to the font.
    Follow I must; I cannot go before,
    Which lead directly to the door of truth,
    hour that I can drink with any tinker in his own language during
  COUNTESS. Dost thou believe't?
    Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain?
  It seems his sleeps were hind'red by thy railing,
  GRUMIO. O this woodcock, what an ass it is!
    And those his golden beams to you here lent
    A man that languishes in your displeasure.
  Strikes each in each by mutual ordering;
    Whom I employ'd was pre-employ'd by him;
    the heat of their division.
    and my name put in the book of virtue!  
    I think we do know the sweet Roman hand.

                        Exeunt Clitus, Dardanius, and Volumnius.
  Those, for their parents were exceeding poor,

  Doct. So please your Majesty
    your heart to see it. Her husband goes this morning
  BASSANIO. Promise me life, and I'll confess the truth.
    You straight are on your knees for pardon, pardon;
    We'll do thee homage, and be rul'd by thee,
    It cannot be thus long; the sides of nature
    No note at all of our being absent hence;
    Against my will to do myself this wrong.
    'Yea,' quoth my husband, 'fall'st upon thy face?
  CRESSIDA. You may.
                           SCENE X.
    And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more.
    And once fought with him. He was a soldier good,
    Stand forth, Lysander. And, my gracious Duke,
    And, if one arm's embracement will content thee,
    And stay here in your court for three years' space.
    Johns; and, putting off his hat, said 'I will now take my leave
    Say, by this token, I desire his company  
    Yet, spaniel-like, the more she spurns my love
  CYMBELINE. I thank you. Let's withdraw,
    eye! By this light, but for her eye, I would not love her- yes,
    The pedlar's silken treasury and have pour'd it
    Attend your office and your quality.
    With yet appearing blood, and the examples
    No leisure had he to enrank his men;
    And are by me with child,' etc. This is done.
  KING. We came to visit you, and purpose now
    East, west, north, south; or like a school broke up,
    your coats for two-pence.                               Exit
  ARMADO. I confess both; they are both the varnish of a complete
    To bar my master's heirs in true descent,
  Looking with pretty ruth upon my pain.
    Of goodly thousands. But for all this,
    The throne he sits on, nor the tide of pomp
    fob off our disgrace with a tale. But, an't please you, deliver.
                     39
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    When Helen is defended; nor none so noble
    To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
    To know his pleasure; and in that behalf,
  STEPHANO. Moon-calf, speak once in thy life, if thou beest
    And both the Princes had been breathing here,

  HORNER`. Alas, my lord, hang me if ever I spake the words. My
    Th' incessant care and labour of his mind

  SUFFOLK. Go forward, and be chok'd with thy ambition!
  TAILOR. But how did you desire it should be made?
  MESSENGER. My honourable lords, health to you all!
    You are already Love's firm votary
    After your own sense, yea, though our proper son
  SPEED. Well, I perceive I must be fain to bear with you.
  ARMADO. Why, sadness is one and the self-same thing, dear imp.
    May it be possible that foreign hire
    Bear th' addition nobly ever!
    In time we hate that which we often fear.
    How found you him?
    Come, you and I will thither presently;

                                                 Exeunt citizens
    directions.
    With all the admired beauties of Verona.
  Knight. He says, my lord, your daughter is not well.
    son mauvais, corruptible, gros, et impudique, et non pour les
  SECOND WITCH. I'll give thee a wind.
    I'll have mine action of batt'ry on thee.
    it is proved already that you are little better than false
    Farewell at once-for once, for all, and ever.
  Some tender money to me, some invite me,
             Queen, Laertes, with Lords attendant.]
    For, bear ourselves as even as we can,
    And, might we lay th' old proverb to your charge,
    And if my legs were two such riding-rods,
  DESDEMONA. A most unhappy one. I would do much
SCENE 2.
  MRS. PAGE. A puff'd man?
  BOATSWAIN. Lay her a-hold, a-hold; set her two courses; off
creditors, lose. Here I promis'd you I would be, and here I commit
    strange picklock, which we have sent to the deputy.
    More monstrous standing by; whereof I reckon

  BEROWNE. This afternoon.
    So shall no foot upon the churchyard tread

    The Moor's abused by some most villainous knave,

    Not scurvy, nor a temporary meddler,
    In like conditions as our argument,
  TIMON. A beastly ambition, which the gods grant thee t' attain to!
  ROSALIND. Nay, but the devil take mocking! Speak sad brow and true
    I am to entreat you, request you, and desire you, to con them by
    I'll hence forthwith unto the sanctuary
    And make her chronicle as rich with praise
    At a fair vestal, throned by the west,
  QUINCE. Let us hear, sweet Bottom.
     Both? one? or neither? Neither can be enjoy'd,
  APEMANTUS. What things in the world canst thou nearest compare to

    ardent zeal would set whole realms on fire.
    Would you would bear your fortune like a man!
  DUKE. What mean you by that saying?
    And then will I be general of your woes
  HELENA. O, wilt thou darkling leave me? Do not so.
    How thou lov'st us show in our brother's welcome;
    The Emperor's court is like the house of Fame,  
    meet him at the gates, and redeliver our authorities there?
  In loving thee thou know'st I am forsworn,
    death and sepulchre. Hob-nob is his word- give't or take't.
    Dear amity and everlasting love.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. Besides, you know, it draws something near to the
                        She takes a sword and runs at him behind.
    Blemish'd his gracious dam. This is not, no,
  the city Can witness with me that it is not so:
  PERDITA. So it is.  
    The hostess-ship o' th' day.  [To CAMILLO]
    And he not from his reason fall'n thereon
  CHANCELLOR. Speak to the business, master secretary;
  Poins. [within] Francis!
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  BOLINGBROKE. Kind uncle York, the latest news we hear
  HOLOFERNES. Via, goodman Dull! Thou has spoken no word all this
  CASSIO. Ha, ha, ha!
  Not wond'ring at the present, nor the past,


    seeming, Audrey- as thus, sir. I did dislike the cut of a certain
  Jul. Now by Saint Peter's Church, and Peter too,
    But left that hateful office unto thee.
    Hath he excepted most against my love.
    comes not along with her.
  Shallow.  [Exit SIMPLE]  A justice of peace sometime may
    Though light, take pieces for the figure's sake;
Venice. A public place
    would make themselves whores but they'ld do't!
    He will remain so.
    Where cheeks need blood, in thee it is abused.

    But since your ladyship is not at leisure,
     this honourable assembly, she kicked the poor King her father.
    And tried his inclination; from him pluck'd
BALTHAZAR. Good meat, sir, is common; that every churl affords.

    We then have done you bold and saucy wrongs;
  SOMERSET. The quarrel toucheth none but us alone;
    Since riches point to misery and contempt?
    Lie not a night from home; watch me like Argus;
  Fairing the foul with art's false borrowed face,
  ANTONIO. Who's there?  
    Lift up thy brow, renowned Salisbury,
  SERVILIUS. Good gods!  
  FALSTAFF. Welcome, Ancient Pistol. Here, Pistol, I charge you with
    Our contract celebrated.
    I pray you tell me hath anybody inquir'd for me here to-day. Much
    know how many fathom deep I am in love! But it cannot be sounded;
    house.
    My name is Constance; I was Geffrey's wife;
    O, one too much by thee! Why had I one?
    As water in a sieve. Give not me counsel,
  FLORIZEL. No, good sir;
    great belly, and he my dog.
  To follow that which flies before her face:
    To talk with him, and to behold his visage,
  HELENA. Bless our poor virginity from underminers and blowers-up!
    that puts the world into her person and so gives me out. Well,
    Against our nuptial, and confer with you
    Joy, gentle friends, joy and fresh days of love
    Death to thyself, but to thy lewd-tongu'd wife,
    Or who should study to prefer a peace,

    ignorance were as dark as hell; and I say there was never man
    Light on the man! Come hither, gentle mistress.
    I purpose not to wait on fortune till
    So that, dear lords, if I be left behind,

    That makes him close his eyes? I'll open them.
    By external swelling; but she looks like sleep,
    Say that she rail; why, then I'll tell her plain
    The ghost of Caesar hath appear'd to me
    may, without contradiction, suffer the report. It was much like
  PETRUCHIO. I pray you do.             Exeunt all but PETRUCHIO
Enter the old DUCHESS OF YORK, with the SON and DAUGHTER of CLARENCE
     He said it would be thus- poor banish'd man!
  MENENIUS. Has he disciplin'd Aufidius soundly?
  CAIUS. Ay, be-gar; and de maid is love-a me; my nursh-a
ACT II. SCENE I.
    Those that can see thou lov'st, and I am blind.
  Leon. Dost thou look up?
    comes to fight.
    For mine own ends; indeed to gain the popedom,
  Whose fresh repair if now thou not renewest,
  FIRST CITIZEN. No, 'tis his kind of speech- he did not mock us.
    To those which would not know them, and yet must
             FLORIZEL and AUTOLYCUS exchange garments
    And even now my burden'd heart would break,
    undergoes my challenge; and either I must shortly hear from him
    To hear Cominius speak?
    is call'd the Countercheck Quarrelsome. And so to the Lie
              Over park, over pale,
    him. But to answer you as you would be understood: he weeps like
    And if he were, he came into the world
    infamy.
  1. Mus. No.
  LAUNCE. Can nothing speak? Master, shall I strike?
    Ill mayst thou thrive, if thou grant any grace!
    Of these exactions, yet the King our master-
    Had come along with me but that his mistresss
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Ay, and more.

  BOYET. Prepare, madam, prepare!
  SICINIUS. Thus to have said,
    is the disease of not listening, the malady of not marking, that

  TALBOT. Be not dismay'd, fair lady; nor misconster
    Give her the right you should have giv'n her cousin,
  OCTAVIUS. Do so, good Messala.
    A jewel in a ten-times barr'd-up chest
    Abuse him to the Moor in the rank garb
                   Enter in Cardinal's habit
    that, in the beastliest sense, you are Pompey the Great. Pompey,
  DESDEMONA. Who is thy lord?
  ALCIBIADES. Banish me!
    my affection hath an unknown bottom, like the Bay of Portugal.

  Watchmen. This is all.
  ANTONY. Well, what worst?
    pallabris; let the world slide. Sessa!
    This is the hag, when maids lie on their backs,  

  SUFFOLK. Then call our captains and our colours forth!
    Such as is bent on unlike majesty
    Till time and vantage crave my company.               Exeunt
  exploits with his mace than a morris-pike.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Grounded upon no other argument
  Mon. Alas, my liege, my wife is dead to-night!
  ROSALIND. But, cousin, what if we assay'd to steal
    let thy curtsies alone, they are scurvy ones.
    instruction.
    for mine is money.
    This evening must I leave you, gentle Kate.
    Thou knowest my old ward. Here I lay, and thus I bore my point.

    they are burs, I can tell you; they'll stick where they are
  AJAX. Thersites!
    What, wilt thou not? Then, Clarence, do it thou.
    a little worse than a man, and when he is worst, he is little
    March'd toward Saint Albans to intercept the Queen,
  ALL. Seek to know no more.
    And turn'd into the extremity of love.
    How came her eyes so bright? Not with salt tears;
  OTHELLO. That's a fault. That handkerchief
    To say extremities was the trier of spirits;
    But then a noise did scare me from the tomb,
    I'll after them.                                        Exit
    But seek the weary beds of people sick.
        Enter CHARLES, BASTARD, ALENCON, REIGNIER, and forces
  2. Watch. Both which, Master Constable--
    That dogg'd the mighty army of the Dauphin?

  Even now a tailor call'd me in his shop,
  OBERON. I pray thee give it me.
  WARWICK. What answers Clarence to his sovereign's will?

    But who comes in such haste in riding-robes?
  IAGO. Faith, that was not so well; yet would I knew
    That will allow me very worth his service.
                              Enter LAFEU
SCENE III.
    And look thou meet me ere the first cock crow.
  MACDUFF. Those that Macbeth hath slain.
  Tyb. Thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here,
             O Fates! come, come;
  GEORGE. Where's Captain Margaret, to fence you now?
    Lean raw-bon'd rascals! Who would e'er suppose
    That e'er our hearts shall make!
    And Ferdinand, her brother, found a wife
    not taken till these two undermine it, the walls will stand till

    And all things answerable to this portion.
    shall not be admitted; there is no excuse shall serve; you shall
    The trick of's frown, his forehead; nay, the valley,
    And had no help of anger; they were parted
    shouldst have heard how her horse fell and she under her horse;
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    I am a soldier and now bound to France.
  PANTHINO. What's the unkindest tide?  

    Some of us would lie low.
    your rapier, Jack; I vill tell you how I vill kill him.
  AGRIPPA. And strange it is
    you so upon me?
  LORENZO. Nay, we will slink away in suppertime,
  DEMETRIUS. Tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit;
    Our late edict shall strongly stand in force:
  JAMY. Ah! that's a foul fault.              [A parley sounded]

    That, by and by, disguis'd they will be here.
  ULYSSES. Sir, I foretold you then what would ensue.
PROLOGUE
    But cardinal sins and hollow hearts I fear ye.
    If he be guilty, as 'tis published.
    I'll change my black gown for a faithful friend.
  Laur. This same should be the voice of Friar John.
    The Queen from France hath brought a puissant power;
  CAESAR. Arise, you shall not kneel.
    Please you t' accept it- that the Queen is spotless
    In peace and honour rest you here, my sons;
             And the issue there create
  Edm. I was contracted to them both. All three
    And then thou lov'st me for my name is Will.
    And make the hearts of Romans serve your ends!
  PANDARUS. [Within] What's all the doors open here?
    Shall Master Slender steal my Nan away,

    To some man else, as this dead man doth me.
    Our people and our peers are both misled,
  Claud. How know you he loves her?
  Par. Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,
    To make thy riches pleasant. What's yet in this

    By him one step below, he by the next,
    governed, as the sea is, by the moon. As, for proof now: a purse
  LEONTES. I ne'er heard yet  
    Ratcliff, thyself-or Catesby; where is he?
  SURVEYOR. On my soul, I'll speak but truth.
    Like pleasant travellers, to break a jest
    Their manners are more gentle-kind than of
  BRUTUS. Kneel not, gentle Portia.
    That I have borne your father?  
    for a servant to use his master so; being, perhaps, for aught I
    His mansion, and his titles, in a place
    That Phaethon should check thy fiery steeds,
    Master Snare; do me, do me, do me your offices.
  The devil will shake her chain, and fright us with it.
  CHIRON. Demetrius, here's the son of Lucius;
    Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
    To be mine own attorney in this case.
  KING. I think thee now some common customer.
    Whips out his rapier, cries 'A rat, a rat!'

    His rougher accents for malicious sounds,
  Lo as a careful huswife runs to catch,
    For the commodity that strangers have
  Are windows to my breast, where-through the sun
    Are mighty gossips in our monarchy.
    To hear me speak his good now?
  
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  And you said no.
    No more, I say; if thou dost plead for him,
  To me are nothing novel, nothing strange,
Enter Cassio and some Musicians.
    Upon my faith and honour.
  FALSTAFF.  [To the PAGE]. Pay the musicians, sirrah.- Farewell,
    But dawning day new comfort hath inspir'd.
    To bear a hard opinion of his truth;
    The subject will deserve it. Such as give
     That tend upon my father?
    This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
    For him thou labour'st by thy flight to shun
    We are but warriors for the working-day;
    Was in his countenance. You he bade
    Blow me about in winds! Roast me in sulphur!
    prison! Where is the Provost? Away with him to prison! Lay bolts  
  Queen. One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
  ALICE. Your Majestee entendre bettre que moi.
  LAFEU.  [Reading the ballad title]  'A Showing of a Heavenly
  TRINCULO. O Stephano, hast any more of this?
  CITIZEN. Till you compound whose right is worthiest,
  Hot. He will (forsooth) have all my prisoners;
    I speak no more than what my soul intends;
    But since she pricked thee out for women's pleasure,
  That have profaned their scarlet ornaments,
    Join with me to forbid him her resort;
    Thy sin's not accidental, but a trade.
  FOURTH CITIZEN. You have received many wounds for your country.
  ANTONY. Of it own colour too.
  POET. Nor I.
  Guil. A thing, my lord?
  CLARENCE. We know thy charge, Brakenbury, and will
    were from the ends of opposed winds. The heavens continue their

  CONSTABLE. And if he be not fought withal, my lord,
  CLEOPATRA. Not now to hear thee sing; I take no pleasure
  Are their males' subjects, and at their controls.
    And rest myself content.
    Pierce into that; but I can see his pride
  OTHELLO. By heaven, I'll know thy thoughts.

    As England was his faithful tributary,
    Their banners wave again.
  BAPTISTA. After my death, the one half of my lands
    come, there is sauce for it.  [Striking him again]  You call'd me
    I had a feigned letter of my master's
    Tawny-finn'd fishes; my bended hook shall pierce
    man of no estimation in the world; but I did see him do as
  SMITH. [Aside] He need not fear the sword, for his coat is of

           He met the nightmare, and her nine fold;
              When earthly things made even
    Relates in purpose only to Achilles.
                         Re-enter WARWICK
    'Tis no sinister nor no awkward claim,  
  LOVELL. Faith, how easy?
  FIRST SENATOR. Pray you let's to him.                   Exeunt
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Anointed, crowned, planted many years,
        BEAUFORT, the PAPAL LEGATE, and two AMBASSADORS
    That presently you hie you home to bed.
    Having alike your cause? Of this my letters
     So may it come, thy master, whom thou lov'st,
        Those that slew thy virgin knight;
    Lie down, and stray no farther. Now all labour
    and his tricks? Why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock
    Howbeit they would hold up this Salique law
    ginger or made her neighbours believe she wept for the death of a
  ALONSO, King of Naples
Southwark
    Three kings I had newly feasted, and did want
  BOYET. Not unlike, sir; that may be.           Exit LONGAVILLE
  MESSENGER. As I did stand my watch upon the hill,
                             SCENE 3.
    In private will I talk with thee apart.
  Anon, I wot not by what strong escape,
    O old Sir Robert, father, on my knee
  LADY MACBETH. Your servants ever
  Doug. Thou art the king of honour.
    To give him welcome.                                    Exit
    Hath left me open to all injuries.
    Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
    But worn a bait for ladies.  
  ORLANDO. So do all thoughts; they are wing'd.
  
    Wears this war's garland; in token of the which,
  COUNTESS. Which better than the first, O dear heaven, bless!
  Glou. When shall I come to th' top of that same hill?
    Therefore, sweet Proteus, my direction-giver,
  CONSTABLE. Yet do I not use my horse for my mistress, or any such
           Heaven would that she these gifts should have,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Being but heavy, I will bear the light.
    And tell me what thou notest about the field.
    Lady, you are the cruell'st she alive,
  KING EDWARD. What if both Lewis and Warwick be appeas'd
  PAROLLES. O my good lord, you were the first that found me.
    I am so lated in the world that I
  MENENIUS. As Hercules
    Winner and loser?
    Strato, thou hast been all this while asleep;  
    It shall not wind with such a deep indent
    Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine.

  MACBETH. Both of you
    Lies in their purses; and whoso empties them,
    Within the belt of rule.
    When thou art Timon's dog, and these knaves honest.
    should be terrors in him, that he should not come;
    And for his dreams, I wonder he's so simple
    I every day expect an embassage
    Pardon me, if you please; if not, I, pleas'd
    Would be eternal in our triumph. Go,
    Without the sensible and true avouch
    For so he calls me. Now I feed myself
    To speak with Coriolanus.
    See you these, husband? Do not these fair yokes
  PETRUCHIO. Where is your sister, and Hortensio's wife?
    Whereto thy speech serves for authority,
    I am so far from granting thy request
    Thou shalt be whipp'd with wire and stew'd in brine,
    thank thee. Wait on me home, I'll make sport with thee;  
    To love her for her mother's sake, that lov'd him,
    No chance may shake it. Give me grace to lay
    But this your minion, whom I know you love,
    Whate'er thou hearest or seest, stand all aloof
    Shall witness live in brass of this day's work.
    Which each to other hath so strongly sworn.
  ANNE. Pardon, good father. Good my mother, pardon.
    And Edward Duke of Bar. Of lusty earls,
    Put out the light, and then put out the light.
    With this young prince.
    renegado; for there is no Christian that means to be saved by
    That death in me at others' lives may laugh.
    Without some pleasure now. What sport to-night?

  DUCHESS. Why, my good cousin, it is good to grow.
    thing, go!
    We will be short with you. 'Tis his Highness' pleasure

    Acts of black night, abominable deeds,
    Your faithful servant. I dare lay mine honour

     Enter ROBERT FAULCONBRIDGE and PHILIP, his bastard  
    Oppose himself against a troop of kerns,
  CHIEF JUSTICE. What tell you me of it? Be it as it is.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    if my wind were but long enough to say my prayers,
    longer.
  CLOTEN. Where is thy lady? or, by Jupiter-
    Myself the crying fellow did pursue,
  For there can live no hatred in thine eye,
  MRS. PAGE. Come, come, come.

    Could speak this with as free a soul as I do!
    But at this instant he is sick, my lord,
  TIMON. If thou hat'st curses,
    A weeder-out of his proud adversaries,

  ROSS. My dearest coz,  
    Th' offence pardons itself. Dear Isabel,
  WOLSEY.  [Aside to GARDINER]  Give me your hand: much

  CAESAR. Cleopatra, know
  MONTANO. Come, come, you're drunk.

                              Exeunt all but the KING and EXETER
    never a man, but one that is like to be executed for robbing a
    And ripens in the sunshine of his favour,
  QUEEN MARGARET. Peace, impudent and shameless Warwick,
  Hot. 'Tis the next way to turn tailor or be redbreast-teacher. An
                And those things do best please me
    What man was he talk'd with you yesternight,
    To pluck bright honour from the pale-fac'd moon,
    How many of you have mine eyes beheld!
  Lear. Come, good Athenian.
    of weight chances, call up me. Keep your fellows' counsels and
    Those that will hear me speak, let 'em stay here;
    Doth teach me answers for deliverance!
    What's that to me? My father was no traitor.
    Methought the souls of all that I had murder'd
    Till with thy warlike sword, despite of fate,
  2. Cap. By'r Lady, thirty years.
  ABERGAVENNY. Is it therefore
  Bene. What's he?
           Were still at odds, being but three.
    That only like a gulf it did remain
    To banish your defenders, till at length
  That like a football you do spurn me thus?
    For I can here disarm thee with this stick
    In our well-found successes to report
  MALVOLIO. M. O. A. I. This simulation is not as the former; and

  In him those holy antique hours are seen,
  Ham. Between who?
  BIGOT. Who kill'd this prince?
  PAULINA. Well, be't so, prithee.                   Exit GAOLER
    His bruised helmet and his bended sword  
    lady.
    through the lion's neck; and he himself must speak through,
  IAGO. I am sorry to hear this.
    That in mine ear I durst not stick a rose
    In our first way.
    He was your enemy; ever spake against
    My fortunes every way as fairly rank'd,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    I will advise you where to plant yourselves,
  DESDEMONA. It was his bidding; therefore, good Emilia,  
    For, now they are oppress'd with travel, they
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Some merry mocking lord, belike; is't so?
    Which, being cruel to the world, concluded
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. The Duke and all that know me in
    Make tigers tame, and huge leviathans
    Call Warwick patron, and be penitent?
    I sing but after you.
    In the great hand of God I stand, and thence
  FORD. Ay, but if it prove true, Master Page, have you any
    Should bring thy father to his drooping chair.
  Ham. Ay, madam, it is common.
    streets, and at every corner have them kiss. Away!     Exeunt
  OLIVER. 'Twas I; but 'tis not I. I do not shame
  TITUS. Fear her not, Lucius; somewhat doth she mean.
  Prince. O, if it should, how would thy guts fall about thy knees!
    And see another, as I see thee now,

                       Enter a SERVANT
                                              [They stand aside]
  CALIBAN.   [ Within]  There's wood enough within.
  ORLEANS. That they lack; for if their heads had any intellectual
    Molto honorato signor mio Petruchio.
    To make your vessel nimble.
  SOLDIER. [Reads] 'Edward the Fourth, by the grace of God,
    And much too little of that good I saw
  BOTTOM. Give me your neaf, Mounsieur Mustardseed. Pray you, leave
Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.
  Had not their bark been very slow of sail;
  LAFEU. You have made shift to run into 't, boots and spurs and all,
  DUKE OF VENICE. I am sorry for thee; thou art come to answer
    And that shall Claudio know; so shall the Prince,

    Think true love acted simple modesty.
    methinks his flesh is punish'd; he shall have no desires.
    They never then had sprung like summer flies;  
  BOLINGBROKE. Urge it no more, my Lord Northumberland.
                      Enter MALVOLIO
    I see your brows are full of discontent,
  CALIBAN. Ay, that I will; and I'll be wise hereafter,
     Holla the other.
 Exit
    Lest you mistake. The heavens are over our heads.
    thoughts.
                 Re-enter FLUELLEN, GOWER following
    How ugly night comes breathing at his heels;
    Scorning whate'er you can afflict me with.
    His body will I bear unto the King.

    I have a truant been to chivalry;
  DUKE. [To Othello.] What in your own part can you say to this?
    Who am myself attach'd with weariness
    I'll watch him tame and talk him out of patience;
    First will I see the coronation;
  WOLSEY. What, amaz'd
  Samp. No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir; but I bite my
  KATHERINA. Nay, then,
    Wip'd off in honourable keeping her.  
  CLEOPATRA. Is she as tall as me?
    Nor no man's lord; I have no name, no tide-
    May a free face put on; derive a liberty
    receive. I am confessor to Angelo, and I know this to be true;
  LAFEU. What prince is that?
    Even in the lukewarm blood of Henry's heart.  
                         Enter STANLEY

    To the latter end of a fray and the beginning of a feast
    'Tis still a dream, or else such stuff as madmen
    But not away to-morrow!
    Come, come, it may not be. I wonder much,

    Commit them to the fire.
  ACHILLES. I am Achilles.
  And for a woman wert thou first created,
THE END
    But lend and give where she is sure to lose;
  YORK. As in a theatre the eyes of men
    I Richard's body have interred new,
      Exit

    Ballad us out o' tune; the quick comedians
  DUCHESS. O ill-dispersing wind of misery!
    To see great Pompey pass the streets of Rome.
  Prince. Why, what a rascal art thou then, to praise him so for
    the wrongs are thou hast done him, I know not; but thy  
Rome. CAESAR'S house
    To your own person. Nay, when I have a suit
  CLOWN. [Sings] What an if you do?
  LIEUTENANT. Be not so rash; take ransom, let him live.
    The well-appointed King at Hampton pier
    praise her, but I would somebody had heard her talk yesterday, as
    I must advance the colours of my love,

    And service to his Majesty and you,
  PROTEUS. Sir Thurio, fear not you; I will so plead
    The matter's in my head and in my heart;

    You should not blemish it if I stood by.
  EXETER. Beside, his wealth doth warrant a liberal dower;
    What conjuration, and what mighty magic-
    'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show Virtue her own feature,
  Their distract parcels in combined sums.
    And with your queen. I am his cupbearer;
    From niggard nature fall, yet rich conceit
  DUKE. No might nor greatness in mortality
    Which now mistrust no parcel of my fear,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. And to that end, sir, I will welcome you.
  That do not do the thing, they most do show,
    Like egg-shells mov'd upon their surges, crack'd
  THERSITES. I say this Ajax-             [AJAX offers to strike him]
SCENE VII.
    The offer of an hundred thousand crowns
    Mark then abounding valour in our English,  
    love-song, like a robin redbreast; to walk alone, like one that
  Which nightly gulls him with intelligence,
    That did disrobe the lion of that robe!
  ARCHBISHOP. 'Tis very true;
    Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
    Is full accomplish'd; for the Roman eagle,
  PHILARIO. See! Iachimo!
  VALENTINE. I pray thee, Launce, an if thou seest my boy,
  HOLOFERNES. Quare 'chirrah,' not 'sirrah'?
    Our worser genius can, shall never melt
    That I must draw this metal from my side
    Into your own hands, Cardinal, by extortion;
    His lady banish'd and a limb lopp'd off.
    appertaining to thy young days, which we may nominate tender.
    Directly unto this question that I ask.
    If he be gone he'll make his grave a bed;
  Where would you had remain'd until this time,
                                                         [One knocks]
  LAVACHE, a clown and Servant to the Countess of Rousillon
    Thy drugs are quick. Thus with a kiss I die.          Falls.
    appearing in the blossoms of their fortune.
  Ham. Nay, but swear't.
    and all the rest from their functions: they put forth to steal.
    I think, but dare not speak.
    Madam Julia?
    And overheard what you shall overhear-
    Than did our soldiers, aiming at their safety,
     better testimony of his intent, you should run a certain course;
     As flies to wanton boys are we to th' gods.
    That horse that thou so often hast bestrid,
  Lady. Hold, take these keys and fetch more spices, nurse.
    The match between Sir Thurio and my daughter.
  JULIA. I must, where is no remedy.
    And to do that well craves a kind of wit.
    worship's a wanton! Well, heaven forgive you, and all of
    Wert thou the son of Jupiter, and no more
      In neither aught, or in extremity.
    Here is her hand, the agent of her heart;
             By the dead and drowsy fire;
    The King and Queen there! That they were, I wish
    With many holiday and lady terms
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Where lay the King to-night?

  Let him be brought forth and borne hence for help.
    is cast away. She's quick; the child brags in her belly already;
    And own no other function. Each your doing,
    And some will mourn in ashes, some coal-black,
  CORIOLANUS. Now, as I live, I will.
    erected it.
    Want similes, truth tir'd with iteration-
    And give the King this fatal-plotted scroll.
    Had he been Adam, he had tempted Eve.
    The one is Caius Lucius.
                                         "Come away, come away."
    My bounty is as boundless as the sea,
    Of an unbounded stomach, ever ranking
  ANTONY. Do so, we'll speak to them; and to-night I'll force
    Which troubles oft the bed of blessed marriage,
  ACHILLES. What?
  FIRST MURTHERER. You made it known to us.
  TIMON. So soon as dinner's done we'll forth again,
    Because I knew the man, were slighted off.
  PATROCLUS. Why am I a fool?
  KING RICHARD. Needs must I like it well. I weep for joy
    My lord, you do me shameful injury
                        France. Before Bordeaux
                         Enter Romeo.
    winter tames man, woman, and beast; for it hath tam'd my old
    Madam, undress you, and come now to bed.
    For your own ladies and pale-visag'd maids,

    When he looks out in an ungrateful shape!-
Enter Desdemona, Emilia, and Clown.
  PRINCE HENRY. It is too late; the life of all his blood
    To have it of my trust or for my sake.                Exeunt
    Of an invincible unconquer'd spirit!
    Fight, gentlemen of England! Fight, bold yeomen!
    Myself had notice of your conventicles-
    Yet heav'ns are just, and time suppresseth wrongs.
    Say ay, and of a boy.
    And, after John of Gaunt, Henry the Fourth,
  CLEOPATRA. No matter, sir, what I have heard or known.
    Give me to drink mandragora.
    Sailing in this salt flood; the winds, thy sighs,
    in the shape of a woman; for in the shape of man, Master
    shriek'd at it that it pass'd; but women, indeed, cannot
    To let my tongue excuse all. What was purpos'd
    What villain touch'd his body, that did stab,
    You would have thought the very windows spake,
    such a boy; and for my English moiety take the word of a king and
    French thrift, you rogues; myself, and skirted page.
    That this may be some error, but no madness,
    Never so little show of love to her,
  BEROWNE. I cannot stay thanksgiving.                [Retiring]
    But here comes Antony.
  YOUNG CLIFFORD. But that my heart's on future mischief set,
  My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  SECOND LORD. Ay, it is fit for your lordship only.
    Courteous destroyers, affable wolves, meek bears,
  PROCULEIUS. This I'll report, dear lady.
  NORFOLK. I thank your Grace,
     If she sustain him and his hundred knights,
    Troilus had rather Troy were borne to Greece
Enter KING JOHN, PANDULPH, and attendants
  KING RICHARD. He is our cousin, cousin; but 'tis doubt,
                               You, you, ay, you!
    That swoopstake you will draw both friend and foe,
    What cannot be preserved when Fortune takes,
  SERVANT. Soundly, my lord.
    With the first glance that ever-pardon me.  
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    A piece of ordnance 'gainst it I have plac'd;
    Therefore, if thou art moved, thou runn'st away.
  BUCKINGHAM. I fear he will. Here Catesby comes again.
  Points on me graciously with fair aspect,
    Convert to anger; blunt not the heart, enrage it.
  FALSTAFF. No quips now, Pistol. Indeed, I am in the waist
    As honour, loss of time, travail, expense,

    No vessel can peep forth but 'tis as soon
                             Enter PLAYERS
    By uproars sever'd, as a flight of fowl
    But throw her forth to beasts and birds to prey.
    Lend favourable ear to our requests,
  Kent. No, my good lord; I am the very man-
  LEONTES. He dreads his wife.
  ESCALUS. How know you that?
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
     Hot questrists after him, met him at gate;
    Fan you into despair! Have the power still
  WOLSEY.  [Aside]  The late Queen's gentlewoman, a knight's
    Is she not proud? Doth she not count her blest,
    And to the last bended their light on me.
  HOST. Hue and cry, villain, go! Assist me, knight; I am
                 Alexandria. CAESAR'S camp
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  So that eternal love in love's fresh case,
    house, and that most beastly. In good faith, 'a cares not what
  CADE. I am able to endure much.
    faculties 'a has, that show a weak mind and an able body, for the
                     18
    How like, methought, I then was to this kernel,
    Sir William Brandon, you shall bear my standard.
    And that unaptness made your minister
  VALENTINE. Call her divine.
Servingmen come forth with napkins.
  KING EDWARD. Now, princely Buckingham, seal thou this
  LAFEU. Ay, with all my heart; and thou art worthy of it.
    I do perceive it hath offended you.
    Shall sink in my rebuke. Give me to know
            How thus we met, and these things finish.
    Under the sweet shade of your government.
    Hath left mine arm. It was thy master's; shrew me,


    You break not sanctuary in seizing him.
    horse and armour?
    If you'll not here proclaim yourself our King,
    And being a winner, God give you good night!
    For all the country, in a general voice,
    For I do fear eyes over- to shipboard  
  KING RICHARD. He said the truth; and what said Surrey
    By th' luckiest stars in heaven; and, would your honour
  DUKE. There is no composition in these news
  TIMON. Why dost thou seek me out?
  CLEOPATRA. I'll give thee, friend,
    To take a tedious leave; thus losers part.
  MIRANDA. I might call him
    With hearts create of duty and of zeal.
    Can we set eye on, but in an safe reason

  KING. What makes treason here?
    Being mechanical, you ought not walk
                                                      [Drums and
    Which modern lamentation might have mov'd?
  AGUECHEEK. By my troth, the fool has an excellent breast. I had
    conscience, la.
    There is not chastity, enough in language
    Under pretence to see the Queen his aunt-
    But beg one favour at thy gracious hand,
    I have more care to stay than will to go.
                                  Exeunt PROCULEIUS and soldiers
  POSTHUMUS. Is there no way for men to be, but women
    That you would love yourself, and in that love
    For standing by when Richard stabb'd her son.
    Lastly, myself unkindly banished,
  the mountain of mad flesh that claims marriage of me,
    We dare not move the question of our place
  MARCUS. Fie, brother, fie! Teach her not thus to lay
  QUICKLY. Blessing of his heart!
    I will come home to you, or, if you will,
                                    Exeunt all but Iago and Roderigo.
    I'll see your Grace; till then I'll follow her.
                                                 Exit LORD MAYOR
  And, not without some scandal to yourself,
    And, after that wise prince, Henry the Fifth,
    show you a monster. Master Doctor, you shall go; so shall
    The poor mechanic porters crowding in
                            Re-enter Iago.
    If secret powers
    The knee before him, and returns in peace

    That makes us wretched by the death of thee
    To cudgel you and make you take the hatch,
ACT III. SCENE 7.
    And now behold the meaning.
  LAVINIA. No grace? no womanhood? Ah, beastly creature,
    him my waiting gentlewoman? He that hath a beard is more than a
    In troops I have dispers'd them 'bout the isle.

                Enter SIR HUMPHREY STAFFORD and WILLIAM
    fear to kill a woodcock, lest thou dispossess the soul of thy
    aside] The matter?
    and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it. Go  
    As to us, to all the world, that Caius Marcius
Scene IV.
    And I'll corrupt her manners, stain her beauty,  
  DUKE. And mine, a hundred and forty.
    That, Britain, I have kill'd thy mistress; peace!
    For here we need it not.
  FIRST SOLDIER. Follow the noise so far as we have quarter;
  BOTTOM. I will discharge it in either your straw-colour beard, your
  HERMIA. So is Lysander.
    Towards our assistance we do seize to us
    I cannot love him; let him send no more-
    In their sweet bosoms, that never war advance
    For all your fair endeavours, and entreat,
    Our lives upon to use our strongest hands.
    upon you; and I pray you your name?
    To-day the lords you talk'd of are beheaded.
  From limits far remote, where thou dost stay,
    And all that poets feign of bliss and joy.
    Give me pen and ink. Sirrah, can you with a grace deliver up a
    deeds; for 'a never broke any man's head but his own, and that

  HORTENSIO. Quick proceeders, marry! Now tell me, I pray,
             All with weary task fordone.
  DUMAIN. How follows that?
  HECTOR. Ho! bid my trumpet sound.
    Julia I lose, and Valentine I lose;
  CORIOLANUS. I would they were barbarians, as they are,
AEGEON. O! grief hath chang'd me since you saw me last;
  LADY MACDUFF, his wife
      But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword  
  BRUTUS. Into what dangers would you lead me, Cassius,

    You know how apt our love was to accord

    For one being su'd to, one that humbly sues;

    Mine eye too great a flatterer for my mind.  
    Harry the Fifth is crown'd. Up, vanity:
  ADRIAN. Carthage?
    Nor will he know his purse, or yield me this,
  CLOWN. But a trifle neither, in good faith, if the learned should
    disposition, is to take those things for bird-bolts that you deem

    And counsel him to fight against his passion.
  FALSTAFF. Come up into my chamber.                      Exeunt

  AUDREY. Ay, I know who 'tis; he hath no interest in me in the
    Is my apparel sumptuous to behold?
    Of this young Percy's pride? The prisoners
    And do not call them bastards.
  TIMON. My hand to thee; mine honour on my promise.
    Hast thou, which art but air, a touch, a feeling
    That present med'cine must be minist'red  
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Repair to th' Capitol.
    Shall out-tongue his complaints. 'Tis yet to know-
    That bear this heavy mutual load of moan,
  RIVERS. Madam, bethink you, like a careful mother,
    'Tis none of mine.  
    For the like loss I have her sovereign aid,
  Fortinbras, Prince of Norway.  
  CELIA. You must borrow me Gargantua's mouth first; 'tis a word too
                                  Gives her Desdemona's handkerchief.
  HERMIA. Methinks I see these things with parted eye,
    Than this pure soul shall be. All princely graces
  DEMETRIUS. I love thee not, therefore pursue me not.
    Be rush'd upon! Thy thrice noble cousin,
  KING RICHARD. Think what you will, we seize into our hands
    What need we any spur but our own cause
  And knew the patterns of his foul beguiling;
    For thou hast made it like a humble suppliant.  
    Melancholy.
    Withal say that the Queen hath heartily consented
    Weeping as fast as they stream forth thy blood,

                                   [Sennet. Here they come down]
    with my- some rich jewel. Toby approaches; curtsies there to me-
  CONSTABLE. Well plac'd! There stands your friend for the devil;
    together in consent, like so many wild geese. If I had a suit to
             Come to the pedlar;
  MAYOR OF YORK                      LIEUTENANT OF THE TOWER
    One Gilbert Peck, his chancellor-
    Immediately he was upon his knee,
  POMPEY. Pompey.
    You shall have your desires with interest,
    We mean to fight. Within our files there are
    'That I receive the general food at first
    Let me be us'd with honour; strew me over
       Enter, behind, PRINCE HENRY and POINS disguised as drawers
    Whatever I shall think.
    Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
    To show Lord Timon that mean eyes have seen
                 his WIFE and a multitude following
    Of Comagene; Polemon and Amyntas,
                     135
    The duty of the day. She looks us like
    chafe at the doctor's marrying my daughter; but 'tis no
  CHIEF JUSTICE. How comes this, Sir John? Fie! What man of good
  PORTIA. What is't o'clock?
  Gentlemen. (within) Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
  SMITH. Has a book in his pocket with red letters in't.
  Ham. Why, what should be the fear?
    Have given myself the cause.
    For lying so, Hermia, I do not lie.
  CORIOLANUS. No, take more.  
    all bubukles, and whelks, and knobs, and flames o' fire; and his
Wales. Before the cave of BELARIUS
    Persuade the Queen to send the Duke of York
    Offend you, and obey you, as I did.
    And gives memorial dainty kisses to it,
    Haply you shall not see me more; or if,
  WARWICK. Come hither, gracious sovereign, view this body.
  SHYLOCK. Out upon her! Thou torturest me, Tubal. It was my
    withal.
    Even here I will put off my hope, and keep it
  CAIUS. By gar, with all my heart. He promise to bring me
    My wife's a hobby-horse, deserves a name
    Deserve our better wishes.
  POLIXENES. If at home, sir,
    Thou offer'st fairly to thy brothers' wedding:
    Proclaims you for a man replete with mocks,
         Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
    Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.             Exit.
    To beat me out of Egypt. My messenger
    What kind of catechising call you this?
    How do I thank thee that this carnal cur
        and then TAMORA the Queen of Goths, with her three
  Of my dull bearer, when from thee I speed,
    I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
  BRUTUS. We do it not alone, sir.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE

    Which does mend nature- change it rather; but
  PAGE. Nay, daughter, carry the wine in; we'll drink within.
    I have not been desirous of their wealth,
    Your business was more welcome.  

    Was stabb'd with bloody daggers. God, I pray him,
  Jul. I would not for the world they saw thee here.
    is upon a file with the Duke's other letters in my tent.
  NERISSA. When the moon shone, we did not see the candle.
  GARDENER. Go, bind thou up yon dangling apricocks,
  BEDFORD. Hung be the heavens with black, yield day to
  Who, falling there to find his fellow forth,
    Strangers and foes do sunder and not kiss.
    If heaven will take the present at our hands.
    Answering the letter of the oracle,
    me down. Methinks sometimes I have no more wit than a Christian
  PROVOST. 'Tis pity of him.                              Exeunt
  PAULINA. Either forbear,
  And it shall privilege him from your hands
    courtly and fashionable; performance is a kind of will or

Flourish. Enter AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, DIOMEDES, NESTOR, AJAX, MENELAUS,
    To see you ta'en from liberty, to look on

  PANDARUS. What's that? What's that?
           Seeking the food he eats,
    For thee watch I, whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
    And keep not back your powers in dalliance.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. What's the matter?
    Of golden metal that must round my brow
    So, now y'are fairly seated. Gentlemen,
    Pertains to th' state, and front but in that file
    Were he as famous and as bold in war
  AGAMEMNON. Speak, Prince of Ithaca; and be't of less expect
  LUCY. Then God take mercy on brave Talbot's soul,
          Enter, with a trumpet before them, as in dumb show,
    Wither one rose, and let the other flourish!
    Nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse
    Our windows are broke down in every street,
  Dog. Well, stand aside. Fore God, they are both in a tale.

    A poor unlearned virgin, when the schools,
  ESCALUS. It grieves me for the death of Claudio;
  ANTONY. When it concerns the fool or coward. On!
    She vied so fast, protesting oath on oath,
  WARWICK. How far off is our brother Montague?
    What, go you toward the Tower?
    To wit, besides commends and courteous breath,
  GUIDERIUS. Money, youth?
    Did young Lorenzo swear he lov'd her well,
    As there comes light from heaven and words from breath,
    That common chances common men could bear;
    Renowned Titus, flourishing in arms.
    charg'd you in his will to give me good education: you have  
    Take this along; I writ it for thy sake     [Gives a letter]
    But they do shake their heads, and I am here
    And here again, that I may rest assured
    And, though she be but little, she is fierce.
  2. Watch. [aside] I know that Deformed. 'A bas been a vile thief
  DEMETRIUS. He should have worn the horns on his head.
        Love, whose month is ever May,
    Your dinner, and the generous islanders
  Nor services to do till you require.  
  SHYLOCK. Here 'tis, most reverend Doctor; here it is.
    In what place of the field doth Calchas keep?
    Like perfect honour.  

    That rents the thorns and is rent with the thorns,
    And, as we hear you do reform yourselves,
    Wilt thou yet leave the battle, boy, and fly,
    Doubting thy birth and lawful progeny.

  VOLUMNIA. Nay, my good soldier, up;
  KING HENRY THE EIGHTH
    To order peace between them; and omit
    Who, holding in disdain the German women
Exit.
  HECTOR. Thy hand upon that match.
  NESTOR. What moves Ajax thus to bay at him?
    That from Tarentum and Brundusium
  '"When thou impressest, what are precepts worth
  Where art thou Muse that thou forget'st so long,
    or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of
    A thousand times in secret.
    Unless you were of gentler, milder mould.
    No night is now with hymn or carol blest;
    Shall thereby be the sweeter. Reason thus with life.
  PAROLLES. What I dare too well do, I dare not do.
  SON. Then you conclude, my grandam, he is dead.
    You, reverend father, and these noble lords,
    minute into a thousand parts, and break but a part of the
    Thrice to thine, and thrice to mine,
  SILENCE.  [Singing]
  BUCKINGHAM. Why let it strike?
    And built so shelving that one cannot climb it
    because he could not speak English in the native garb, he could
    one. I would we were all of one mind, and one mind good. O, there
                                                    He drinketh.
    Led hither by pure love. Which of them both
    guerra. I wish you the peace of mind, most royal couplement!
    I understand thy kisses, and thou mine,
    I'll leave her houses three or four as good
    Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
    The new-heal'd wound of malice should break out,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  CALIBAN. I'll show thee every fertile inch o' th' island;
    Who, in rebellion with himself, will have  
    Than any of her lineaments can show her.
    And my large kingdom for a little grave,

  EMILIA. 'Tis not a year or two shows us a man.
  KING HENRY. I prithee give no limits to my tongue:
  Rey. Very good, my lord.


    Who builds his hope in air of your good looks  

    Captive to thee and to thy Roman yoke;  
    The Queen is dead.
    And then, from hour to hour, we rot and rot;
    And prove the period of their tyranny,
    All's Well that Ends Well. Still the fine's the crown.
    First thrash the corn, then after burn the straw.
    Be perdurably fin'd?- O Isabel!
The park
    There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats,
  CLOWN. Very many, men and women too. I heard of one of them no
  KING RICHARD. Doubly divorc'd! Bad men, you violate  
    that looks upon me will take me without weighing. And yet in some
  LUCENTIO. Here's Lucentio,
    And for thy treachery, what's more manifest
     kingdom, it appears not which of the Dukes he values most, for
  STANLEY. Why, madam, that is to the Isle of Man,
    When shall we see again?
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    foolery; if we walk not in the trodden paths, our very petticoats

  TRANIO. Among them know you one Vincentio?
  FORD. Pardon me, wife. Henceforth, do what thou wilt;
    Dress'd in a little brief authority,
  Which eyes not yet created shall o'er-read,
  Come, go with us; we'll look to that anon.

  KING HENRY. Stand forth, Dame Eleanor Cobham, Gloucester's wife:
  THIRD CITIZEN. Woe to that land that's govern'd by a child.
    Stand bare and naked, trembling at themselves?
    Should not in this best garden of the world,

    gracious fooling last night, when thou spok'st of Pigrogromitus,
    Yet in some measure satisfy her so
    Being one too many by my weary self-
    Nothing may give us aid.
    For your own reasons turn into your bosoms

SCENE 2.
  Fal. And unbound the rest, and then come in the other.
  LEONTES. Force her hence.  
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  ALCIBIADES. Must it be so? It must not be. My lords,
    where is Anne Page; by gar, he deceive me too.
    Which busy care draws in the brains of men;
    Or what you will command me will I do,
  BEROWNE. Shot, by heaven! Proceed, sweet Cupid; thou hast thump'd
    To help unarm our Hector. His stubborn buckles,
  SCARUS,                "    "   "
    Be nominated for an equal pound
  JEWELLER. You know me, Apemantus?

    To any lady that subdues a lord.
    Although they want the use of tongue, a kind
  ALL. We are.
  PATROCLUS. Amen.
    To Bona, sister to the King of France.
    We may effect this business yet ere day.         Exit OBERON
    That which cries, "Thus thou must do, if thou have it;
    By this I challenge him to single fight.

            Alack, in me what strange effect
  CURTIS. In her chamber. Making a sermon of continency to her,
    This breast from harbouring foul deceitful thoughts.
       Enter Don Pedro and Claudio and two or three other.  
    And found her wondrous cold; but I sent to her,


    Unto Southampton do we shift our scene.                 Exit
    Clement's Inn; where I think they will talk of mad Shallow yet.
  QUEEN MARGARET. King Lewis and Lady Bona, hear me speak
    As much as me my dukedom.
    Of stirs abroad, I shall beseech you, sir,
    O valiant lord, the Duke of York is slain!
    But, soft! I think she comes, and I'll prepare
  LUCY. Thou princely leader of our English strength,
    sooner the better.  
    Is stopp'd with dust: the first of April died
    Who thrives and who declines; side factions, and give out
    with his last, the fisher with his pencil and the painter with
    Hearing that you prepar'd for war, acquainted

    appoint?
  CASSIUS. 'Tis Cinna, I do know him by his gait;
  King. I saw him hold Lord Percy at the point
    Nor yet Saint Philip's daughters were like thee.
  Fal. Now, Hal, what time of day is it, lad?
    And will with all expedience charge on us.
    A young and learned doctor to our court.
             Enter Macbeth, Banquo, Ross, and Angus.
    Seeing his reputation touch'd to death,
  Hero. Why, how now? Do you speak in the sick tune?
  CAPTAIN. This is Illyria, lady.
    That his soul sicken not.
    Lend me a fool's heart and a woman's eyes,
Enter Hotspur, Worcester, Douglas, Vernon.
                                                          Exeunt
    And You must put me in your heart for friend,
    But if thy love were ever like to mine,
    Shall to the edge of all extremity
    The daughter of this lord?
     And dare upon the warrant of my note
A street before a priory
    'Tis my undoing. Love and meekness, lord,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    But I believe, although I seem so loath,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. You gave me none; you wrong me much to say so.
    Be thou as lightning in the eyes of France;

  VOLUMNIA. She shall, she shall.
    Call our cares fears; which will in time
    To save the innocent- anything possible.
  
    From the four corners of the earth they come
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    I rather wish you foes than hollow friends.
    pensioners; but, I warrant you, all is one with her.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Orleans the Bastard, Charles, Burgundy,
  FEEBLE. Here, sir.  
  CLAUDIO, a young gentleman
    The charges of the action. We have made peace
    copulation of cattle; to be bawd to a bell-wether, and to betray
    Transports his poisoned shot- may miss our name
    And stand between her back, sir, and the fire,
  O cleft effect! cold modesty, hot wrath,
  What wretched errors hath my heart committed,
  QUICKLY. Peace, I pray you.


    My comfort comes along. -Break up the court;
    What with the injuries of a wanton time,
    Jewel of children, seen this hour, he had pair'd
                         Sennet. Flourish. Exeunt all but EXETER
    And mountainous error be too highly heap'd
                      Enter a third SERVANT
    Are all unfolded; wherein he appears
    carbonado of me. I like not such grinning honour as Sir Walter
    You heavy people, circle me about,
  ARMADO. Pretty and apt.
            And dares not answer nay-
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. You would all this time have prov'd there

    How now, Dame Partlet the hen? Have you enquir'd yet who pick'd
  HIPPOLYTA. It must be your imagination then, and not theirs.
    he shall not abuse Robert Shallow, esquire.
  SICINIUS. Your Coriolanus is not much miss'd  
    And for that name, which is no part of thee,
    The offers we have sent you.
    Upon a rapier's point. Stay, Tybalt, stay!
    The tenth of August last this dreadful lord,
  WOLSEY. Sir, you cannot.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
                     53

  DUCHESS. Alas for both, both mine, Edward and Clarence!
  PAULINA. Pray you, then,

      Enter EXTON, with attendants, hearing a coffin
    Must yield to such inevitable shame
    Do breed unnatural troubles; infected minds
    To revenge is no valour, but to bear.
    Take heed, have open eye, for thieves do foot by night;
    Knit earth and heaven together!
  JULIA. You, minion, are too saucy.
  Traveller. Jesus bless us!
ACT II. SCENE I.
  And therefore mayst without attaint o'erlook
    should live, all debts are clear'd between you and I, if I might

     Enforce their charity. 'Poor Turlygod! poor Tom!'
  You would keep from my heels, and beware of an ass.
    Go, therefore, tell thy master here I am;
    I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.-


    your heads. You must be seeing christenings? Do you look
    That it engluts and swallows other sorrows,

    it flame again; for the nobles receive so to heart the banishment
  OLIVER. Wilt thou lay hands on me, villain?
  LYSANDER. Less than an ace, man; for he is dead; he is nothing.

    And half our sailors swallow'd in the flood;
  Cor. Time shall unfold what plighted cunning hides.
    As cherubins, an gilt; the madams too,
  BERTRAM. I think so.
    Who, as Ulysses says, opinion crowns
    Hanging a golden stamp about their necks
  HASTINGS. I tell thee, man, 'tis better with me now  
    When I will wear a garment all of blood,  
  AARON. To achieve her- how?
  Hath scar'd thy husband from the use of wits.
    From whence at first she weigh'd her anchorage,
    serpent when he hisses. He will spend his mouth and promise, like
    For tears do stop the floodgates of her eyes.
    Sickness is catching; O, were favour so,  
    A mangled shadow. Perchance to-morrow
    That appertain to you? Am I yourself
    For why, the senseless brands will sympathize
    Into our presence, where this heaven of beauty
  NYM. Pray thee, Corporal, stay; the knocks are too hot, and for
  PAROLLES. I beseech your honour to hear me one single word.
    Thou draw not on thy danger and dishonour;
    This is a strange repose, to be asleep
  DESDEMONA. How now, my lord!
    use his good pleasure, and put him to execution; for discipline
    Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
  WILLOUGHBY. Barely in title, not in revenues.
    Duke of Gloucester
  TIMON. You may take my word, my lord: I know no man
  What's sweet to do, to do will aptly find:
    By this one bloody trial of sharp war.
Enter Malcolm and Macduff.
    Under the wrath of noble Hotspur's sword,
  ORLANDO. Forbear, and eat no more.
  SEBASTIAN.  [Aside to ANTONIO]  The next advantage  
    And in that shame still live my sorrow's rage!
  Edg. Hadst thou been aught but gossamer, feathers, air,
    Dismiss your followers, and, as suitors should,
    I have a heart as little apt as yours,
    Jaquenetta's, and that 'a wears next his heart for a favour.
    He must, he is, he cannot but be wise;
  SILVIA. And when it's writ, for my sake read it over;

    A motley fool. A miserable world!  
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
               Hautboys play. The dumb show enters.
    With viewing of the town; there shall you have me.
    of thy master, thou halfpenny purse of wit, thou pigeon-egg of
  PROVOST. Ay, my good lord; a very virtuous maid,

  HOLOFERNES. The posterior of the day, most generous sir, is liable,
  Ham. Denmark's a prison.
  SHYLOCK. Gaoler, look to him. Tell not me of mercy-
  AUFIDIUS. I cannot help it now,
    I'll hang my head and perish.
    Unless you will accompany me thither.
  VIOLA. By innocence I swear, and by my youth,
                              CAIUS, and RUGBY
Enter Leonato, Benedick, [Beatrice,] Margaret, Ursula, Antonio,
  BUCKINGHAM. Ay, madam; he desires to make atonement


    Settlest admired reverence in a slave.
  CYMBELINE. What's this, Cornelius?
    Advance thy halberd higher than my breast,
         With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot
    Of godlike amity, which appears most strongly
    'Tis catching hither, even to our camp.
  KING. 'For Jaquenetta- so is the weaker vessel called, which I
  My ring away. This course I fittest choose,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  GHOST OF VAUGHAN.  [To RICHARD]  Think upon Vaughan,
    The leading of thine own revenges, take
  ORLANDO. That would I, were I of all kingdoms king.
    What, will you make a younker of me? Shall I not take mine ease
    Not sorting with a nuptial ceremony.
    They shall subscribe them for large sums of gold,
    my Lord.
    Concur together, severally entreat him.
    O spirit of love, how quick and fresh art thou!
    much approve me. Well, sir?  
    Augmenting it with tears.
    When women cannot love where they're belov'd!
    That I am faulty in Duke Humphrey's death.
  Until I know this sure uncertainty,
    I'll tell thee as we pass; but this I pray,
    Let's see for means. O mischief, thou art swift
    The business present; 'tis his Highness' pleasure
  CELIA. I pray you, tell it.
  GLOUCESTER. Alack, my lord, that fault is none of yours:
    As if he were of note. Bring him to th' King.
    I were your son, so you would love me, Hubert.
    To your obedience fifty fortresses,
  HORTENSIO. Mistake no more; I am not Licio.
    Did I offend your Highness.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    For courage mounteth with occasion.
    And makes each petty artire in this body
  And the firm soil win of the watery main,
    Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
  CLIFFORD. Chaplain, away! Thy priesthood saves thy life.
    With gobbets of thy mother's bleeding heart.
    Rather than life preserv'd with infamy.
  CATESBY. Call him again, sweet Prince, accept their suit.
           Take, O, take those lips away,
    When vice makes mercy, mercy's so extended
    Last night you did desire it. Speak not to us.
    To dog his heels and curtsy at his frowns,
    Can tickle where she wounds! My dearest husband,
  GLOUCESTER. He hath, my lord.

  IRIS. Ceres, most bounteous lady, thy rich leas
    But the plain devil and dissembling looks,
     Be as well neighbour'd, pitied, and reliev'd,
    The gods look down, and this unnatural scene
    And these assume but valour's excrement
    But honour thee, and will do till I die.
  What largeness thinks in Paradise was sawn.
     nuptial breaches, and I know not what.
    Produce the grand sum of his sins, the articles
    When gallant-springing brave Plantagenet,

    For I am nothing if not critical.
  IAGO.                   O treacherous villains!
    As with the meat, some undeserved fault
    O, now be gone! More light and light it grows.
    Or hath mine uncle Beaufort and myself,
    Ere I could make thee open thy white hand
    He's beat from his best ward.
    Thy letters may be here, though thou art hence,

    To be your Regent in the realm of France.
  GLOUCESTER. And his well-chosen bride.
    The mighty Warwick and did fight for me?
    And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine
    The common people swarm like summer flies;
    Where how he did prevail I shame to speak-
         Pay with falsehood false exacting,
  I'll prove mine honour and mine honesty
    If it could so roar to me. I cut off's head,  
    Than love that's hir'd! What, goest thou back? Thou shalt
     But, true it is, from France there comes a power
    And to her white hand see thou do commend  
ABBESS. Be quiet, and depart; thou shalt not have him.
  TIMON. Who, without those means thou talk'st of, didst thou ever
    O, 'tis the curse in love, and still approv'd,
  APEMANTUS. That answer might have become Apemantus.
    And it is meet I presently set forth.
    With twenty thousand kisses and to drain
  KING. 'sorted and consorted, contrary to thy established proclaimed
    In God's name speak-when is the royal day?
  PAGE. Here comes Sir John.
  Wife. Verona's summer hath not such a flower.
    fought in Paulina! She had one eye declin'd for the loss of her
    fashion of the world is to avoid cost, and you encounter it.
  NORFOLK. Stay, my lord,
  BRUTUS. He is welcome hither.
    Thy favour's good enough. Some jay of Italy,
    Though you would seek t' unsphere the stars with oaths,
    Hath Britain all the sun that shines? Day, night,
    To speak your deeds; not little of his care
    When he had done, some followers of mine own
    Kate, eat apace. And now, my honey love,
  Gads. That's even as fair as- 'at hand, quoth the chamberlain'; for
  FLAVIUS. Good fellows all,
  KING JOHN. Then do I give Volquessen, Touraine, Maine,
    A counterpoise, if not to thy estate
      Enter LADY FAULCONBRIDGE, and JAMES GURNEY
  HELENA. You are too young, too happy, and too good,
    Hath seiz'd the wasteful King. O, what pity is it
    But here, upon this bank and shoal of time,
    Hope gives not so much warrant, as despair
    No, Caesar shall not. Danger knows full well
  AGRIPPA. Who, queasy with his insolence
    God should be so obdurate as yourselves,
    Thou art, if thou dar'st be, the earthly Jove;
    Spending his manly marrow in her arms,
    Here, cousin,

  ALONSO. I say, Amen, Gonzalo!
    'Vive le roi!' as I have bank'd their towns?
    Hector's great spirit flew. Answer me, heavens.
    fellows are asleep.                                     Exit
  ORLANDO. I do desire we may be better strangers.
  

    through London gates, that you should leave me at the White Hart
  SPEED. 'Item: She hath no teeth.'
    than she is, she were unhandsome, and being no other but as she  
  Unto a woman, happy but for me,
  BASSANIO. And do you, Gratiano, mean good faith?
  Hero. Why, every day to-morrow! Come, go in.
    crossing the plain highway of talk, that the good Antonio, the
Gaoler, Officers, Attendants
    I would not have believ'd him-no tongue but Hubert's.
    beholding to you than any, freely give unto you this young
    When presently through all thy veins shall run
    When we are wrong'd, and would unfold our griefs,
    May move your hearts to pity, if you mark him.
  Ros. Will't please you go, my lord?
  LADY GREY. Right gracious lord, I cannot brook delay.
  CLOWN. Marry, you are the wiser man; for many a man's tongue shakes
    Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
    And made between's by vows. Thou hast found mine;

    Art thou some god, some angel, or some devil
  QUEEN KATHARINE, wife to King Henry, afterwards divorced
    And thou, Lord Bourbon, our High Admiral,
    threat'ned to beat her.
  BARDOLPH. I have no tongue, sir.
    In a most dear particular. He call'd me father;
  NORTHUMBERLAND. My lord, in the base court he doth attend
    Loaden with irons wiser than the judge,
    O, when mine eyes did see Olivia first,
    And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
London. Another street
    Say thy prayers, and farewell.
    Would have inform'd for preparation.  
     To knee his throne, and, squire-like, pension beg
  OLIVIA. Why, this is very midsummer madness.
    And deal in her command without her power.
    Then be thou jocund. Ere the bat hath flown

    o'er a couplet or two of most sage saws.  
  Mort. Come, come, no more of this unprofitable chat.
    I think I shall command your welcome here,  
    As infancy and grace. But yet, Paulina,
    To be corrupt and treasonous.
    The heavy gait of night. Sweet friends, to bed.
    business, which he knows is not to be done; damns himself to do,
    'Tis like the forc'd gait of a shuffling nag,
    I cannot fight upon this argument;

  King. So shaken as we are, so wan with care,
    Nor is your firm resolve unknown to me
    And those two counties I will undertake
  TITINIUS. No, this was he, Messala,
    Be worthily entertain'd.                        Exit SERVANT
    whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a
    Let me entreat- for I command no more-
    Of many desperate studies by his uncle,  
    after dinner; when you look'd sadly, it was for want of money.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS

    The least of which haunting a nobleman
    thrust thy neck into a yoke, wear the print of it and sigh away
    I run before King Harry's victory,
    Signifying nothing.
Rome. Before the palace

and the LORD CHAMBERLAIN
    And slept above some fifteen year or more.
  Hor. What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
    Go before, nurse. Commend me to thy lady,
    For, as I think, they do command him home,

    in your cabin for the mischance of the hour, if it so
  CLOWN. Marry, sir, by many a wind instrument that I know. But,

    witness. Here I hold your hand; here my cousin's. If ever you
  WARWICK. 'Twas not your valour, Clifford, drove me thence.
  CARDINAL. No more of him; for I will deal with him
  LYSANDER. Stay, gentle Helena; hear my excuse;

     As badness would desire.
    'Twixt sky and ground. Wilt thou hear more, my lord?
    Have we pass'd through, not without much content
    true lover, hence, and not a word; for here comes more company.
  BRUTUS. God-den to you all, god-den to you an.
  And summer's lease hath all too short a date:
  PRINCE. No; I will sit and watch here by the King.
    Since fate, against thy better disposition,
  PETRUCHIO.  [Aside]  Hortensio, say thou wilt see the tailor paid.-
    And here is not a creature but myself,
    knowledge of his chin.
    may live to have need of such a verse. We see it, we see it. How
    and, in her invention and Ford's wife's distraction, they
    My master's enemy.
    Purpose return. Why hast thou gone so far
    at the court, but you kiss your hands; that courtesy would be
    In this so never-needed help, yet do not
    A man of complements, whom right and wrong
Enter SECOND FRENCH LORD with five or six other SOLDIERS in ambush
    How now, Varrius!  
  VIOLA. Good madam, let me see your face.
  RIVERS. What, loss of some pitch'd battle against Warwick?
Enter HECTOR
  WALL. Thus have I, Wall, my part discharged so;
    How now, Malvolio!  
    Of mediation, after I am dead,
    Than Cleopatra, nor the queen of Ptolemy

    Keep your word, Phebe, that you'll marry me,
  And gazing in mine eyes, feeling my pulse,
     Her husband being alive. Now then, we'll use
    To have a look of such a worthy mistress.

    Even to the general all-ending day.
    Come, put mine armor on; give me my staff.

  Bene. An old, an old instance, Beatrice, that liv'd in the time of
ACT_3|SC_4
    Than fly to others that we know not of?

    But, by great Mars, the captain of us all,
    ambitious; nor the lawyer's, which is politic; nor the lady's,
  'Yet did I not, as some my equals did,
  BEROWNE. Is this your perfectness? Be gone, you rogue.
  Dost hold Time's fickle glass his fickle hour:
  KING. Set me the crown upon my pillow here.
    And it must follow, as the night the day,
    would do little good upon him. She may perhaps call him half a
    to front his revenges with the easy groans of old women, the
    As cause doth minister. Go, call at Flavius' house,
                      Enter an OLD ATHENIAN  
    Did not the one deserve to have an heir?
  CASSIUS. Trebonius knows his time, for, look you, Brutus,
    Within these forty hours Surrey durst better

  Hor. Nay, very pale.
    Condemned villain, I do apprehend thee.

    means. The jewels you have had from me to deliver to Desdemona
     To see some mischief on him. O!                     He dies.
  Osw. Wherefore, bold peasant,
    After your thoughts, straight back again to France.     Exit
    Henry had none, but did usurp the place;
    Cupid, Cupid!

  How would thy shadow's form, form happy show,
    And so I say I'll cut the causes off,
    Say to the King the knowledge of the broil
     Come, noble Burgundy.
    And wear it in my heart. Why, then, be sad;
      if thou dar'st,
    gold
    Thou art, great lord, my father's sister's son,
    Or, by our greatness and the grace of it,
          And pardon'd the deceiver, dwell
     I tell you all her wealth. [To France] For you, great King,
    You bred him as my playfellow, and he is
  BELARIUS. I never saw
    I am content he shall reign; but I'll be Protector over him.
    Done many things, some less, some more. Your voices?  
    And to set on this wretched woman here
    Fleance his son, that keeps him company,  
  ABHORSON. Truly, sir, I would desire you to clap into your prayers;
    Is gone, we know not how nor where.

  AEDILE. I have; 'tis ready.  
  PROSPERO.  [To ARIEL]  Thou shalt be as free  
  and all grease; and I know not what use to put her to but
    Ere humane statute purged the gentle weal;  
Storm still. Enter Lear and Fool.
    Whom this beneath world doth embrace and hug  
    officer; bespeak him a fortnight before. I will have the heart of
    court, shepherd?
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Propos'd for the deserver! O gentle Pandar,
  PETRUCHIO. Come on, a God's name; once more toward our father's.
  OLIVIA. Well, come again to-morrow. Fare thee well;
                                            Exeunt all but TITUS
  GONZALO. You are gentlemen of brave mettle; you would
    To a morning's holy office. The gates of monarchs
  scarce understand them.
     I hold you but a subject of this war,
    To answer like himself. If Caesar move him,
    your reputation.
  After my death (dear love) forget me quite,
  BIONDELLO. Help, help, help! Here's a madman will murder me.
    But of the finer natures, by some severals
  PANDARUS. I thank you for that; if my lord get a boy of you, you'll
    Ah, let me live in prison all my days;
  APEMANTUS. Thou art a fool to bid me farewell twice.  

    As those that I am come to tell you of!
    Can sleep so soundly as the wretched slave
    I ever bore my daughter or thyself.
    You were a moveable.
  PRINCE OF WALES. Speak like a subject, proud ambitious York.
           What maids lack from head to heel.
    here my melancholy. Well, she hath one o' my sonnets already; the
    Was not incensed by his subtle mother
    Give me thy knife, I will insult on him,
    Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world
  ACHILLES. What are you reading?
  LEONTES. How! Gone?
    Nothing but thunder. Merciful Heaven,
  TITUS. Who doth molest my contemplation?
  THIRD CITIZEN. Are you all resolv'd to give your voices? But that's
    into the north of my lady's opinion; where you will hang like an
    Since their more mature dignities and royal necessities made
    Could he say less?
  TRANIO. Dally not with the gods, but get thee gone.

    name.
    There with fantastic garlands did she come
    To swear against the truth so foul a be.
    A most poor issue?
  Leon. If he do fear God, 'a must necessarily keep peace. If he
    As if it felt with Scotland and yell'd out
    To make one among these wooers. If thou ask me why-
  PROSPERO. Go to; away!
    Caesar and Antony have ever won
    To see the life as lively mock'd as ever
    And set me up in hope? But hush, no more.
  KING RICHARD. Your own is yours, and I am yours, and all.
    Did I redeem; a wreck past hope he was.
  HOLOFERNES. Joshua, yourself; myself, Alexander; this gallant
  BERTRAM. This very day,
  DUKE.                                Now, what's the business?
    Than wishest should be undone." Hie thee hither,

    her?
    We kept together in our chivalry.'
    The bawdy wind, that kisses all it meets,
    And makest me call what I intend to do
    Hear sweet discourse, converse with noblemen,
    And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God b' wi', you.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  Let him walk from whence he came,
    Not only good and wise but most religious;  
    hand a rope more. Use your authority; if you cannot, give
    And you shall find I like it; wait attendance

    Wherever we shall meet, for Timon's sake,
    As Harry Duke of Hereford, were he here.
    With inky blots and rotten parchment bonds;
    I mean in perjur'd witness, than your Master,
                   Re-enter PISANIO and LADIES
  BUCKINGHAM. Hastings, and Edward's children, Grey, and
    despise one that is false; or as I despise one that is not
    To haste thus fast, to find us unprovided.
    I am no loathsome leper- look on me.
  OTHELLO. Out, strumpet! Weep'st thou for him to my face?
    Is there no military policy how virgins might blow up men?
    than suppliest me with the least advantage of hope. I will indeed
    Now, by the gods that warlike Goths adore,
    But she perforce withholds the loved boy,
  FLORIZEL. My good Camillo,
    That stir the King against the Duke my brother.
    Of an old tear that is not wash'd off yet.
    And by the honourable tomb he swears
  Ham. What, frighted with false fire?
    And then I'll bring thee to the present busines
    Does not approve me further, who was wont
  FATHER. These arms of mine shall be thy winding-sheet;
  MOTH. A message well sympathiz'd- a horse to be ambassador for an
    However he puts on this tardy form.
    That it runs over even at his eyes.
    Thy dearest quit thee.                                  Exit
  ENOBARBUS. [Aside] You will be whipt.
    We'll chide this Dauphin at his father's door.
    accident; wherein none can be so determinate as the removing of
    That shows the ignorant a kind of fear
    Austria and France shoot in each other's mouth.
     A childlike office.
  PHILO,                 "    "   "
  MARCUS. My hand shall go.
     The time will not allow the compliment
    Art not without ambition, but without
    an undoubted proof.
The Garter Inn
    For beauty that made barren the swell'd boast

    This enemy town. I'll enter. If he slay me,
    Made tame and most familiar to my nature;
  Can yet the lease of my true love control,  
  FIRST LORD. One of your lordship's pages.
    Where is Lysander and fair Hermia?
                          Enter a POST
    I have the letter here;.yes, here it is:
  BASSANIO.  [Reads]  'Sweet Bassanio, my ships have all miscarried,
    9. The old DUCHESS OF NORFOLK, in a coronal of gold
  ROSALIND. He calls us back. My pride fell with my fortunes;
    well; and not being well married, it will be a good excuse for me
    How dread an army hath enrounded him;
    dissuade succession, but that they are limed with the twigs that
    his horse; and he makes it a great appropriation to his own good
  LORD. Most noble sir,
    With his mail'd hand then wiping, forth he goes,
  A dearer birth than this his love had brought
  ESCALUS. Come, you are a tedious fool. To the purpose: what was
    In general journey-bated and brought low.
    Piercing the night's dull ear; and from the tents
    The other, when she has obtain'd your eye,

  ISABELLA. I am now going to resolve him; I had rather my brother
    For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
                                                    Exit WARWICK
    Love, and be friends, as two such men should be;
  BRUTUS. Hark thee, Dardanius.                        Whispers.
  Verg. If you hear a child cry in the night, you must call to the
  I cannot drink too much of Brutus' love.               Drinks.
SCENE III.
    Were poor and single business to contend
    Begin his fashion. Do not talk of him
  DESDEMONA.                  Why, this is not a boon;
  NERISSA. Silence bestows that virtue on it, madam.
  Bora. Not honestly, my lord, but so covertly that no dishonesty
    And God acquit them of their practices!
    She shall be buried by her Antony;
    Action, nor utterance, nor the power of speech,
  CHARMIAN. Our worser thoughts heavens mend! Alexas- come, his

    freely, or the blank verse shall halt fort. What players are
  So all their praises are but prophecies
    Visor is an arrant knave, on my knowledge.
  MOTH. [Aside] He speaks the mere contrary: crosses love not him.
    there, bless the mark, a pissing while but all the chamber smelt
    Where I have seen them shiver and look pale,
    Pompey surnam'd the Great,
  EDWARD POINS
    Here, as I point my sword, the sun arises,
      Are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
  Jul. Romeo!
    Betroth'd and would have married her perforce
  Corn. This is a fellow of the selfsame colour
    He us'd as creatures of another place;
    Cancel his bond of life, dear God, I pray,
  FALSTAFF. Fare thee well; commend me to them both.
    To winter-ground thy corse-
    make use of anything. I will turn diseases to commodity.
    May give you thankful sacrifice!
    begot, bastard instructed, bastard in mind, bastard in valour, in
  FIRST SERVANT. He had so, looking as it were- Would I were hang'd,
    Show duty, as mistaken all this while
    Shone down the English; and to-morrow they
  ABHORSON. Ay, sir; a mystery.
    Into a cloven pine; within which rift
  Fool. Why, to keep one's eyes of either side's nose, that what a
    have merited, either in my mind or in my means, meed, I
    personal, have been royally attorneyed with interchange of gifts,
    The pow'r that I have on you is to spare you;
    possession de France, et quand vous avez le possession de moi-
      Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
  DUKE. [To ESCALUS] What you have spoke I pardon; sit you down.
  VIOLA. Say I do speak with her, my lord, what then?
                                                         Exeunt.
  FRENCH KING. 'Tis certain he hath pass'd the river Somme.
    Where is he? Call him hither.
  CLOWN. Truly, madam, he holds Belzebub at the stave's end as well
    By reason of his adversary's odds:
    Shall be transported presently to France.
    To move the heavens to smile upon my state,
  TROILUS. You have bereft me of all words, lady.
    as a man in his case may do. Has here writ a letter to you; I

  MARIA. I know him, madam; at a marriage feast,
  SOLANIO. I am sure the Duke
    Unto the weary and all-watched night;  
    I have strong reasons.
    But, hark, I hear the footing of a man.
               Enter the DUKE OF YORK and the DUKE OF
  ISABELLA. There is a vice that most I do abhor,

    Held current music too.
    For we have nothing else to ask but that
    Do you intend it?
  By Dromio here, who came in haste for it.
    arm's end. I will here be with the presently; and if I bring thee
             For still her cheeks possess the same
SCENE IV.
    For though he seem with forged quaint conceit
  LAFEU. A fistula, my lord.
  AARON. Then sit we down and let us all consult.

    then we are sure they are true.
    I do beseech you, whither is he gone?
    The Thane of Cawdor, began a dismal conflict,
    To make a seemly answer to such persons.

    She has a huswife's hand- but that's no matter.
    action is call'd on. Farewell, good wenches. If I be not sent
    ship to purge melancholy and air himself; for, if thou be'st
  MONTJOY. Once more I come to know of thee, King Harry,
    King Edward, valiant Richard, Montague,
    In obstinate condolement is a course
  EDWARD. I am his king, and he should bow his knee.
  CAMPEIUS. My Lord of York, was not one Doctor Pace
    I claim the promise for her heavenly picture.
    Listening their fear, I could not say "Amen,"
    simple, none else would; but you are so without these follies

    With the dear love I bear to fair Anne Page;
    subject, for the liquor is not earthly.
    Hated by one he loves; braved by his brother;
  Fal. A king's son! If I do not beat thee out of thy kingdom with a
  CALIBAN. No more dams I'll make for fish;
    The portraiture of his. I'll court his favours.
    he shall find the letter; observe his construction of it. For
    With accusations, as I hear, more strong
SCENE III.
    We were the first and dearest of your friends.
    Go in, and cheer the town; we'll forth, and fight,
    Neglected my sworn duty in that case.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Satan, avoid! I charge thee, tempt me not.
  GONZALO. Now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for
  Ham. This?
    And, like a man to double business bound,
    am a magician. Therefore put you in your best array, bid your

  Claud. Hero thinks surely she will die; for she says she will die
  To thy fair flower add the rank smell of weeds:  
    The aweless lion could not wage the fight
  PETRUCHIO. Marry, and did; but if you be rememb'red,

    But if thou linger in my territories
    Go, Poins, to horse, to horse; for thou and I

    Nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
  KEEPER. My lord, will't please you to fall to?
Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES
    Supplied with worthy men! plant love among's!
  SIR TOBY. By this hand, they are scoundrels and subtractors that
    Psalm to the tune of 'Greensleeves.' What tempest, I trow,

    And will to save the blood on either side,
  QUEEN. O, I am press'd to death through want of speaking!
    For I did dream of money-bags to-night.
  BASTARD. Your faithful subject I, a gentleman
    Here was he merry, hearing of a song.
  SICINIUS VELUTUS
    How ill white hairs become a fool and jester!
    My friend when he must need me. I do know him
    To have what we would have, we speak not what we mean:
    Do you uphold and maintain in your speeches,
    As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
    good fortune, by the saint whom I profess, I will plead against
    With aid of soldiers to this needful war.
     in. Now a little fire in a wild field were like an old lecher's
    And misbegotten blood I spill of thine,
    Forbear it, therefore; give your cause to heaven.
  DIANA. Do you know he promis'd me marriage?
 Exit
    This morning for ten thousand of your throats
    To follow Caesar in his triumph, since
    I never had triumph'd upon a Scot.
    What, is my daughter gone to Friar Laurence?
    thousand pound I borrowed of you. But 'tis no matter; this poor
    Which cannot choose but bring him quickly on.
     Methinks our pleasure might have been demanded
    Think you a little din can daunt mine ears?
      [He lays his breast open; she offers at it with his sword]
    But meditating with two deep divines;
  VALERIA. Well then, farewell.                           Exeunt
  Edg. Or image of that horror?  
    Which now in some slight measure it will pay,
    And give more strength to that which hath too much;
    As happy prologues to the swelling act
    The King is a thing-
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Or the reputed son of Coeur-de-lion,
  ANTONIO. Shylock, albeit I neither lend nor borrow
    When he might spurn him with his foot away?
  But those same tongues that give thee so thine own,
  FALSTAFF. Have I laid my brain in the sun, and dried it, that
    Adjudg'd an olive branch and laurel crown,
    might be everything, and their intent everywhere: for that's it
  And never rise until my tears and prayers
    Into this place, 'twere pity on my life.
    displeasure.
    O, me, with what strict patience have I sat,
    Why will you suffer her to flout me thus?
  GREMIO. I cannot tell; but I had as lief take her dowry with this
    For this alliance may so happy prove  
  FIRST CITIZEN. Ay, and briefly.
in convenient order about the stage
    With stately triumphs, mirthful comic shows,

    The cloak of night being pluck'd from off their backs,
  MENENIUS. Now, you companion, I'll say an errand for you; you shall
    Were piety in thine, it is in these.
SECOND MERCHANT. Well, officer, arrest him at my suit.
    Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
    Distinction should be rich in. Where? how liv'd you?
    If half thy outward graces had been plac'd
  Glou. Come, come, away!
    in wars; or whether he thinks it were not possible, with
    'Great Hector's sister did Achilles win;
  MESSENGER. Of thirty sail; and now they do re-stem
    Than sway with them in theirs.
    And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
    To think I shall lack friends? Secure thy heart:
    Why rather, sleep, liest thou in smoky cribs,
    The seasons' difference; as the icy fang
    Did they not sometime cry 'All hail!' to me?
    Bringing rebellion broached on his sword,
    Ev'n from this instant, banish him our city,
The house of ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS
    My heart hath one poor string to stay it by,
  FALSTAFF. Prithee, no more prattling; go. I'll, hold. This is

  PAGE. My husband and my lord, my lord and husband;
  VIOLA. O that I serv'd that lady,
    Great Kings of France and England! That I have labour'd
    Discharge my followers; let them hence away,

                      Re-enter GLOUCESTER
                  Enter FENTON and ANNE PAGE
    Who in her duty and obedience, mark,
    prince. Instinct is a great matter. I was now a coward on
Enter a FAIRY at One door, and PUCK at another
  PROVOST. Alack! How may I do it, having the hour limited, and an  
    And by her presence still renew his sorrows.
  Though to it self, it only live and die,

    I heard your guilty rhymes, observ'd your fashion,
  OTHELLO. How comes it, Michael, you are thus forgot?
    To speak a truth. If he be slain, say so:
    To love the Moor.
                                                     Exit Ghost.
    A better speech was never spoke before.
    Which since I know they virtuously are plac'd,
    For our affairs in hand. If that come short,
    Come, shall we go?
    They may astonish these fell-lurking curs.
  CONSTANCE. O be remov'd from him, and answer well!
  Prince. Anon, Francis? No, Francis; but to-morrow, Francis; or,
    the man is dead that you and Pistol beat amongst you.  
    Be it thy course to busy giddy minds
    married un garcon, a boy; un paysan, by gar, a boy; it is
    There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
  Serv. To supper, to our house.
  KING. Come, come, to th' purpose. Did he love this woman?
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Have you your wits? Know you what 'tis you speak?

    too brown for a fair praise, and too little for a great praise.
    Not a relation for a breakfast, nor
    Are often welcomest when they are gone.
  HOSTESS. Where's your yeoman? Is't a lusty yeoman? Will 'a stand
  BOYET. They say that they have measur'd many a mile
    How to cut off some charge in legacies.
    These eyes, which never shed remorseful tear,
<Exeunt
  POSTHUMUS. Sir, with all my heart. This worthy signior, I thank
    of my purpose: you are a gentleman of excellent
  DULL, a constable
    Being come to knowledge that there was complaint
    That England shall couch down in fear and yield.
  FALSTAFF. God save thy Grace, King Hal; my royal Hal!
  PANTHINO. 'Twere good, I think, your lordship sent him thither:
    wrestler; which Charles in a moment threw him, and broke three of
  ARMADO. Holla! approach.
  MENENIUS. Sirrah, if thy captain knew I were here, he would use me
SCENE 3
  BRUTUS. Yes, that thou didst. Didst thou see anything?  
    This man whom hand to hand I slew in fight
    Make no collection of it. Let him show

  Prince. I am good friends with my father, and may do anything.
  TIMON. Art thou Timandra?
  CAMILLO. No, no, my lord.
    Look when I vow, I weep; and vows so born,

  Bene. Hear me, Beatrice!
  BOYET. I was as willing to grapple as he was to board.  
    Which labour'd after him to the mountain's top
    Bear me to prison, where I am committed.
    Hang up your ensigns, let your drums be still,
  Blunt. What is thy name, that in the battle thus
  SUFFOLK. That out of mere ambition you have caus'd
  LEONTES. I am a feather for each wind that blows.

    And wat'ry death-bed for him. He may win;
    Destruction on my head, if my bad blame
  HOLOFERNES. Shall I have audience? He shall present Hercules in
    Thou hadst not liv'd to kill a son of mine.
    Though then, God knows, I had no such intent
    Countless and infinite, yet would I pay them!
    doctor? No; he gives me the potions and the motions. Shall I
                             SCENE 5.
Enter Romeo.
    Pray God he may acquit him of suspicion!
    Being captain of a pinnace, threatens more
  FLUELLEN. Your Grace does me as great honours as can be desir'd in
    as to use mine own words to him?
  CLOWN. I have been, madam, a wicked creature, as you and all flesh
    Or that mine eyes, mine ears, or any sense,
  Ros. Ho, Guildenstern! Bring in my lord.

    To the hot passion of distemp'red blood  

    If Warwick take us, we are sure to die.               Exeunt
    Which dreads not yet their lives' destruction.
  O most potential love, vow, bond, nor space,  
  John. I make all use of it, for I use it only.
          I smell the blood of a British man.
    In every branch truly demonstrative;
  Or some fierce thing replete with too much rage,
  KING. It grieves many.  
    Brief as the lightning in the collied night
  MOWBRAY. Myself I throw, dread sovereign, at thy foot;
The French camp.
    Beside, I fear me, if thy thoughts were sifted,

    again wonderful, and after that, out of all whooping!
    I pray thee, mark me that a brother should
    For there was never yet philosopher
  CYMBELINE. How? me?
    For gay apparel 'gainst the triumph-day.
    That England was defam'd by tyranny.
  SICINIUS. Hear me, people; peace!
    In him, a royal prince, and many moe
    gentleman, I will live to be thankful to thee for't.
     What they are yet, I know not; but they shall be
  FIRST PAGE. Well met, honest gentleman.
  PORTER. I shall be with you presently, good master puppy.
    I hinder you too long-good night, Sir Thomas.
    flattery about me, I cannot so conjure up the spirit of love in
  TIMON. Look thee, 'tis so! Thou singly honest man,
  GONZALO. Good, yet remember whom thou hast aboard.
    But only she; and she deserves a lord
  LUCIO. Well, my lord.
    As able to perform't, his mind and place
  ROSALIND. But is there any else longs to see this broken music in
  PISTOL. 'Solus,' egregious dog? O viper vile!
    I'll leave you.
  ISABELLA. Pardon it;
  FRENCH KING. Take her, fair son, and from her blood raise up
  PISANIO. Well, my good lord.
  TAILOR.  [Reads]  'Imprimis, a loose-bodied gown'-
  BUCKINGHAM. Hark! a drum.
France. The KING'S palace
    Traitor, restore Lavinia to the Emperor.

  MACDUFF. What's the disease he means?
  beggar wont her brat; and I think, when he hath lam'd me,
    Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
  DORCAS.    Thou hast sworn my love to be.
    My wife must move for Cassio to her mistress-  
    And now will I be Edward's champion.
  ANTONY. Thou bleed'st apace.
    Of laughter with a sigh?- a note infallible
    an army ready, say you?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. O most unhappy strumpet!
    north-north-east and by east from the west corner of thy
  PANDULPH. What canst thou say but will perplex thee more,  
SCENE III.
  PAROLLES. Thirty fathom.
    Lose those he hath won.
    he eats his meat without grudging; and how you may be converted I
    And what will you do now? How will you live?
  SERGEANT. Yes,
    enough.
  LEWIS. keep good quarter and good care to-night;
  Chief Watch. 'the ground is bloody. Search about the churchyard.
  CLEOPATRA. Is't not denounc'd against us? Why should not we
  KING. Good man, those joyful tears show thy true heart.
    Which we do tender as we dearly grieve
    Earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light.
    Till youth take leave and leave you to the crutch.
    If his occasion were not virtuous
  GLOUCESTER. And my consent ne'er ask'd herein before!

    And large proportion of his strong-knit limbs.
    They'll give him death by inches.  
    easier swallowed than a flap-dragon.
  BIANCA. Fie! what a foolish duty call you this?
    With windlasses and with assays of bias,
    Signior Petruchio, will you go with us,
  SHALLOW.  [To PAGE] Will you go with us to behold it? My
                                                     [Stabs him]
  For term of life thou art assured mine,
    breed it like a fool!
    And hangs resolv'd correction in the arm
  ORLANDO. I would not be cured, youth.
    As that ungentle gull, the cuckoo's bird,
    To lure this tassel-gentle back again!
    Turning dispiteous torture out of door!
     That I'll resume the shape which thou dost think
  WARWICK. Why should you sigh, my lord?
    Cry lost, and so goodnight.

  'Your meat doth burn' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he.
    To re-salute his country with his tears,
    And told him of those triumphs held at Oxford.
    Some busy and insinuating rogue,
    Then, good my liege, let me have what is mine,
  SPEED. To yourself; why, she woos you by a figure.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. 'Thou shalt not steal'?
    And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
                      Enter TROILUS
    Devis'd a new commission; wrote it fair.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Was there ever any man thus beaten out of season,
    Than Rhodope's of Memphis ever was.
    Anon do meet the Senate.
    Would not this ill do well? Well, well, I see
    The fellow has good judgment.
    Th' unknown Ajax. Heavens, what a man is there!
    Take not away the taper, leave it burning;

    Be quite contrary! And thatch your poor thin roofs
    To show yourself your father's son in deed
  TROILUS. My Lord Ulysses, tell me, I beseech you,
  SIR WALTER HERBERT
    Boyet, you can produce acquittances
    Now prisoner to the palsy, chastise the
  CHARMIAN. E'en as the o'erflowing Nilus presageth famine.
    A bachelor, and a handsome stripling too.
    As a tired horse, a railing wife;
  Cor., Volt. In that, and all things, will we show our duty.
    Nym; or else you had look'd through the grate, like a
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    By any token of presumptuous suit,
    Either both or none.
    But, since unwillingly, take them again.
     Only she comes too short, that I profess

    Open your gates and give the victors way.
    'Twere good, methinks, to steal our marriage;
    As easy mayst thou the intrenchant air
    As e'er I heard in madness.
    And in no sense is meet or amiable.
    Of civil wounds plough'd up with neighbours' sword;
    She turns to favour and to prettiness.
    complain? First let me know, and then I'll answer you.
    Mustardseed?
  Prince. He is indeed, and living to kill thee.
    How he received you. Let me be resolved.
    For my example.
    crows and daws! I had rather be such a man as Troilus than
    Of an ensuing evil, if it fall,
  KING. My noble gossips, y'have been too prodigal;
  WHITMORE. Thou shalt have cause to fear before I leave thee.
  Friar. Wisely, and slow. They stumble that run fast.
  MARCUS. And welcome, nephews, from successful wars,
    Briefly to this end: we are all diseas'd

  CROMWELL. I think by this he is.  
  Sweet thief, whence didst thou steal thy sweet that smells,
    Come, to our flock.        Exeunt ROSALIND, CELIA, and CORIN
  And husband nature's riches from expense,
    And hold her free, I do beseech your honor.
  Fal. I would it had been of horse. Where shall I find one that can
    Have at you for a bitter jest or two.

    Bold of your worthiness, we single you
    continue her love to the Moor- put money in thy purse- nor he his
  Laer. Think it no more.
  A table full of welcome makes scarce one dainty dish.
    Hath her life been; the cure whereof, my lord,

    And there repose you for this night.
    On thy too ready hearing? Disloyal? No.
    the yeoman of the wardrobe.
    The moment on't; fort must be done tonight
  MARIANA. Pardon, my lord; I will not show my face
    Thou art sworn as deeply to effect what we intend
    He draws Mark Antony out of the way.  

    And then they call'd me foul adulteress,
     hath much pined away.
ACT II. SCENE 3.
  BELARIUS. I am too blunt and saucy: here's my knee.

    And hear the sentence of your moved prince.
  LYSANDER. Where art thou, proud Demetrius? Speak thou now.
    That he's your fixed enemy, and revoke
      Where is he
    Who can be angry now? What envy reach you?
  LUCIO. But speedily.
  Fal. Now cannot I strike him, if I should be hang'd.

     Although the last, not least; to whose young love
    That make ambition virtue! O, farewell,
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Marquis Dorset;
    This comfort with the like! But I have words
    affection, that I should win what you would enjoy?
    Master, master! News, and such old news as you never heard of!
    It speaks against her with the other proofs.
  FIRST SOLDIER. He's the devil.
             From the presence of the sun,
    I have a way to will their loves again;
  CAIUS MARCIUS, afterwards CAIUS MARCIUS CORIOLANUS
  CLOWN. Is there no manners left among maids? Will they wear their
  PRINCE. My Lord of York will still be cross in talk.
    Be so dishonoured in the court of Rome.  
    Which like a waxen image 'gainst a fire

    Committing me unto my brother's love;
    any more.
  MACBETH. Why should I play the Roman fool and die
    To-morrow night, when Phoebe doth behold
    marry, I will think nothing to any purpose that the world can say
    And pray receive 'em nobly and conduct 'em
    Is there scarce ask'd for who, and good men's lives  
    For hateful deeds committed by myself!
  BRUTUS. I would not have it so. Lie down, good sirs.
  Lear. Kent, on thy life, no more!
    I dare be sworn I think that he is honest.
  KING. Will you not dance? How come you thus estranged?
    Will touch us all too near, if God prevent not.
    Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,
    If ever sat at any good man's feast,
    For beasts that meet me run away for fear;

  CAMILLO. The swifter speed the better.
    For speculation turns not to itself
    Such as would please. 'Tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone!
    form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though
    hangmen. God-den to your worships. More of your conversation
    And on this couple drop a blessed crown;
    His hand to wield a sceptre; and himself  
    Mine ear is much enamoured of thy note;
    My hand is ready, may it do him ease.
    disposition, and out of his noble carelessness lets them plainly
  MOPSA.     It becomes thy oath full well
    Put into circumscription and confine

    forefinger, as a pancake for Shrove Tuesday, a morris for Mayday,
  ENOBARBUS. What mean you, sir,
  SILVIUS. Sweet Phebe.
     'Tis politic and safe to let him keep
    A crown it is that seldom kings enjoy.
    Remember that you call on me today;
  DEMETRIUS. How many women saw this child of his?
    But I do love the favour and the form
  ANTONY. Moon and stars!
    Send him to answer thee, or any man,
    Is sorer than to lie for need; and falsehood
  HUNTSMAN. Better do so than tarry and be hang'd.
    To show some reason, of no little force,
Rousillon. The COUNT'S palace

    Either betray'd by falsehood of his guard
    Our project's life this shape of sense assumes-
    O' my troth, most sweet jests, most incony vulgar wit!
    And turns the force of them upon thyself.
  SUFFOLK. He is return'd in his opinions; which
  IDEN. Lord, who would live turmoiled in the court  
    Lay on our royal sword your banish'd hands;
    I'll make a journey twice as far t' enjoy
    our house! He shows in this he loves his own barn better than he
  MARIANA. And your courtesy, for a ring-carrier!
    the fee simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.

    The language I have learnt these forty years,
    My numbers lessen'd; and those few I have
    Would have him wed again.
    clout.
  Hero. 'True!' O God!
    presents no mark to the enemy; the foeman may with as great aim
    owe such straight arms, none.
  BELARIUS. How you speak!

             But mark, poor knight,
   Since his addiction was to courses vain,
  VIOLA. On your attendance, my lord, here.
    Trembling even at the name of Mortimer.
    Say 'I am none of thine.'
    The vantage of his anger.
  And age in love, loves not to have years told.
  ANTONIO. Let him alone;
the ATHENIAN LORDS, VENTIDIUS, which TIMON redeem'd from prison.
    poor hands.
  Your sauciness will jest upon my love,
    the point; only refer yourself to this advantage: first, that
    Came from the North, and thus it did import:
    Or else you use not. You look pale and gaze
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
       Enter [Leonato's] brother [Antonio], Hero, Beatrice,
    Say if thou dar'st, proud Lord of Warwickshire,
     And thou art twice her love.
    unluckily it happ'ned that I should purchase the day before for a
  Queen. Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
    Therefore of all hands must we be forsworn.
  FLUTE. No; he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft man in
  DUKE SENIOR. O my dear niece, welcome thou art to me!
  KING JOHN. Some reasons of this double coronation
    That I was worse than nothing; for indeed
    To shake the head, relent, and sigh, and yield,
    If fortune serve me, I'll requite this kindness.
    Good morrow, Brutus, do we trouble you?
    house. Her pretence is a pilgrimage to Saint Jaques le Grand;

    And O you mortal engines, whose rude throats
    Of what he has and has not.
  PETRUCHIO. Now, by Saint George, I am too young for you.
    For 'twas indeed his colour, but he came

    I had rather hear a brazen canstick turn'd
  Poins. [within] Francis!
    To know the numbers of our enemies.
  LEWIS. What, has your king married the Lady Grey?
  Leon. That eye my daughter lent her. 'Tis most true.
    O, never will I trust to speeches penn'd,
    Besides, old Gremio is heark'ning still,
  They were but sweet, but figures of delight:
    To meet your father and the Scottish bower,
    O reverend Tribunes! O gentle aged men!
    Now, Bagot, freely speak thy mind-
  That am debarred the benefit of rest?
    liking. I thank my stars I am happy. I will be strange, stout, in
  VALENTINE. Sweet, except not any;
    And tricking for our fairies.
    And had he match'd according to his state,
  GRATIANO. Thanks, i' faith, for silence is only commendable
  NERISSA. Come, good sir, will you show me to this house?
  DUKE. For the benefit of silence, would thou wert so too!
  Volt. Most fair return of greetings and desires.
    To join like likes, and kiss like native things.
    yards of satin, as I am a true knight, and he sends me security.
    But, peace! For from broad words, and 'cause he fail'd
  Other. Nay, but hear you, Goodman Delver!
    Good argument, I hope, we will not fly-
    And throw it thence into the raging sea.
    Where prayers cross.

  THURIO. How?
    Than you expect. Unseal this letter soon;
    And after, this; and then to breakfast with
    Lords, I protest my soul is full of woe
  Verg. By'r lady, I think it be so.
     And in thy best consideration check

     return the conqueror. Then am I the prisoner, and his bed my
    And take you by the hand, but then you'll think-
    In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
    We shall not find like opportunity.
  IMOGEN. Wherefore then
    I am a simple woman, much too weak
    Her brother is in secret come from France;
    And to be boy eternal.

    And more, more strong, when lesser is my fear,

    Twelve cities, and seven walled towns of strength,
  PETRUCHIO. Who brought it?
    Thou, Leonatus, art the lion's whelp;
    Is of that nature that to your huge store
    O, do not learn her wrath- she taught it thee;
  SECOND OFFICER. Faith, there have been many great men that have
  SECOND SENATOR. And enter in our ears like great triumphers

    Is she not, then, beholding to the man
                  Enter a MESSENGER
    My Wolsey, see it furnish'd. O, my lord,  
    And with a silk thread plucks it back again,
  SILVIUS. It is to be all made of sighs and tears;

     'The fiend, the fiend'- he led me to that place.
    Disdain to root the summer-swelling flow'r
    A weasel hath not such a deal of spleen
    hand.                                       [Helping him up]
    Behold our human actions, as they do,
  KING. Away, away! No time shall be omitted
  MRS. PAGE. Of none but him; and swears he was carried out,
    To fall before the lion than the wolf!       [Clock strikes]
    bloody day to somebody. But I pray God the fruit of her womb
  Kent. This is nothing, fool.
    Only a show or two, and so agree
    With words that made them known. But thy vile race,
Milan. Outside the DUKE'S palace, under SILVIA'S window
    And I must minister the like to you.  
  FIRST SENATOR. Behold our patroness, the life of Rome!
  VOLUMNIA. Nay, go not from us thus.
      Is not a thing to laugh to scorn.                   Exeunt

    Speak not you for him; he's a traitor. Come;
  SERVANT. Sir, my lord would speak with you.
  ROSALIND. With bills on their necks: 'Be it known unto all men by
    He like a puling cuckold would drink up

    Are ye fantastical or that indeed  
  PETRUCHIO. How! She's busy, and she cannot come!  
    I know not what. 'Tis the heart, Master Page; 'tis here,  
  MARINER. Make your best haste; and go not
  ROSS. You know not
    That had a head to hit, either young or old,
    And for these bitter tears, which now you see
     The true blank of thine eye.
  TOUCHSTONE. For my part, I had rather bear with you than bear you;
    I prithee tell me who is it quickly, and speak apace. I would
                   Enter AUTOLYCUS, Singing
    I know not how it tastes, though it be dish'd  
    And by the royalties of both your bloods,
    Are men more order'd than when Julius Caesar
    what an arrant, rascally, beggarly, lousy knave it is; I hope
    I may have liberty to venge this wrong;
  Bene. Friar, I must entreat your pains, I think.
    As hard to leave as keep, whose top to climb
    I prithee, noble friend, home to thy house;
  HOST. Gone to seek his dog, which to-morrow, by his master's
    No big-bon'd men fram'd of the Cyclops' size;

  OTHELLO.               What if I do obey?
    As if he were the right Vincentio.
    To him that for your honour and your state
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. To save her life I'll say she is not so.
  SICINIUS. Have you a catalogue
  CONSTABLE. I will not say so, for fear I should be fac'd out of my
    As bending angels; that's their fame in peace.
  SECOND VARRO'S SERVANT. By your leave, sir.
  We bid be quiet when we hear it cry;
    Cold wisdom waiting on superfluous folly.
    This is my birthday, as this very day
    Thou canst not come to me- I come to thee.        [Falls in]
    Nay, her foot speaks; her wanton spirits look out
    I conjure thee but slowly; run more fast.                  Exeunt
    And thine, Lord Clifford; and you both have vow'd revenge
    Ye favourites of a king; are we not high?
  POET. I will say of it
    Modest as Morning when she coldly eyes
    Swelter'd venom sleeping got,
  CHAMBERLAIN. An't please your Grace, Sir Thomas Bullen's
    gaping.
  CASSIO. Well, I must leave her company.
      spirit to curse
  MRS. OVERDONE. Nay, but I know 'tis so: I saw him arrested; saw him
    Assum'd this age; indeed a banish'd man;
  FALSTAFF. 'Tis the more time thou wert us'd.
    icicle on Dutchman's beard, unless you do redeem it by some
ACT V. SCENE I.
  FALSTAFF. Conceal them, or thou diest.
    Plenty and peace breeds cowards; hardness ever
    For what is he they follow? Truly, gentlemen,
  Leon. Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of your Grace;
    necks, and make but an interior survey of your good selves! O
    That Hermia should give answer of her choice?
    For none but Samsons and Goliases
    And not upon your maid.
  FIRST SENATOR. Here comes Brabantio and the valiant Moor.
    companion, the host of the Garter.
  SUFFOLK. The Cardinal's letters to the Pope miscarried,
  GRUMIO. Ay, and that thou and the proudest of you all shall find
    To do me this last right.
  GRUMIO. I would I were as sure of a good dinner.
  RICHARD. Iron of Naples hid with English gilt,
    Had been her husband, rather than a Christian!-

    companion that you give offence to.
    To give my hand, oppos'd against my heart,
    Divide thy lips than we are confident,
by William Shakespeare
    Wherein you dress'd yourself? Hath it slept since?
    with my sword to be a soldier-like word, and a word of exceeding
    Or shall we on, and not depend on you?
    He is noble, wise, Judicious, and best knows
    And with the same full state pac'd back again
    obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
    bodies hath he divorc'd three; and his incensement at this moment
    Forgive my general and exceptless rashness,  
    Before his sister should her body stoop
ACT_3|SC_11
    And though the mourning brow of progeny
    let me see, what then? Saint Denis be my speed!- donc votre est  
    In whom the title rested, were suppress'd.
    past hiding, and then it's past watching
    Will give her sadness very little cure.
    Doth move the murmuring lips of discontent
    leather of.
    With burden of our armour here we sweat.
    The senators alone of this great world,
    With such an agony he sweat extremely,
    By such poor passion as the maid that milks
    will shoot pointblank twelve score. He pieces out his wife's
  CLEOPATRA. Go on. Right royal!
    Mine ransoms yours, and yours must ransom me.
    To bear with their perverse objections,
    The youth says well. Now hear our English King;
    But in the way of bargain, mark ye me,
London. The palace
    And it I will have, or I will have none.    Exit HABERDASHER
1596
  KING HENRY. There.
  PANDULPH.  [Gives back the crown]  Take again
  VARRO'S SERVANT. I speak not to thee.
    I smell sweet savours, and I feel soft things.
  DUMAIN. The head of a bodkin.
    they ride up and down on her and make her their boots.
  JOSEPH. What, Grumio!
    Madam, to you as many and as good!

  ULYSSES. What glory our Achilles shares from Hector,
  As they did batt'ry to the spheres intend;
  Methinks no face so gracious is as mine,
    or the mighty, or the huge, or the magnanimous, are all one
  Than unswept stone, besmeared with sluttish time.
    Keep Rome in safety, and the chairs of justice
    Should my performance perish.
    toe. 'Tis no matter if I do halt; I have the wars for my colour,
                                                         [Reads]
    In congregations, to yawn, be still, and wonder,
    To have command obey'd.
    What thou dost know of noble Gloucester's death;
    Their own particular thrifts, they would do that
               WINCHESTER, with bloody pates
  CELIA. Peradventure this is not Fortune's work neither, but
    Poor harmless lambs abide their enmity.
    Have bench'd and rear'd to worship; who mayst see,
    Upon the water as he'll stand and read,
    To th' people, not by your own instruction,
    [Aloud]  I will knog your urinals about your knave's cogscomb
    FLAMINIUS
  Glou. O my follies! Then Edgar was abus'd.
    More tuneable than lark to shepherd's ear,
    By fair or foul means we must enter in,
    The second and the third, nine and some five;  
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. The plainer dealer, the sooner lost;
    And hire those horses. I'll be with thee straight.
  YORK. I know our safety is to follow them;
  IAGO. My lord, you know I love you.
    But makes it much more heavy. Hector's opinion
     This tempest will not give me leave to ponder
  DULL. I'll make one in a dance, or so, or I will play
  MARGARET, Queen to King Henry
  That he is borne about invisible.
  FLORIZEL. He shall not.
    To my daughters; and tell them both
    In fair round belly with good capon lin'd,
  QUICKLY. Is it this, sir?
  BRUTUS. 'Tis good. Go to the gate, somebody knocks.
    Yet liv'st thou, Salisbury? Though thy speech doth fail,
    Besides the Thane of Cawdor. But 'tis strange;  
    That yet looks on me, or would know me. Ariel,  
    Commend me to their loves; and I am proud, say, that my occasions
  GUIDERIUS. I love thee; I have spoke it.
    Know you how much the people may be moved
    His horse is slain, and all on foot he fights,
    And neigh, and bark, and grunt, and roar, and burn,
    Whose procreation, residence, and birth,
  KING HENRY. Is this the Lord Talbot, uncle Gloucester,  
    Defective in their natures, grow to wildness;
    May they not be my oracles as well
  SIR HUGH MORTIMER, uncle to the Duke of York
           And a merry heart lives long-a.
    men, When for so slight and frivolous a cause
    Nor any of his false confederates.
    French heart, I will be glad to hear you confess it brokenly with
    great scholar. The competitors enter.
  KING HENRY. We therefore have great cause of thankfulness,

Enter LUCE, within
  Hot. Marry,
    plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams. All which,
    Still to remember wrongs? Daughter, speak you:
    He that has but effected his good will
  Return of love, more blest may be the view.
    His statutes cancell'd, and his treasure spent;
    of Tower-hill or the limbs of Limehouse, their dear
    you to this? What do you know of it?
    Express'd in the condition, let the forfeit
    I will be correspondent to command,
  BOLINGBROKE. Mistake not, uncle, further than you should.  
    Or it will seek me in another place,
    him.
    Of the ravin'd salt-sea shark,
    He hath spoken true. The very dice obey him;
                      Enter ANTONIO
    Sour-ey'd disdain, and discord, shall bestrew
  DUMAIN. Her amber hairs for foul hath amber quoted.
              Enter CHARLES, BURGUNDY, ALENCON, BASTARD,

    that you may most uprighteously do a poor wronged lady a merited
  MENENIUS. Fie, fie, fie!                                  Exit
    For Thurio, he intends, shall wed his daughter;
  BRABANTIO. O heaven! How got she out? O treason of the blood!
A field between the two camps.

    Let him for ever go- let him not, Charmian-
    My sequent protestation: be thou true,
    Severals and generals of grace exact,
                             How now, Cassio!
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Judge.
    The kingly crowned head, the vigilant eye,

  ISABELLA. At what hour to-morrow  
    I fear me you but warm the starved snake,
    O God! If my deep prayers cannot appease Thee,
    the lamb, the fox would eat thee; if thou wert the fox, the lion
    In this resolve. I'll send a friar with speed
    Yet what can it when one cannot repent?
     Thy half o' th' kingdom hast thou not forgot,
  WARWICK. Sweet King! The Bishop hath a kindly gird.
    Toward Calais. Grant him there. There seen,
  King. Not that I know.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  FOURTH GENTLEMAN. The town is empty; on the brow o' the sea
    More larger list of sceptres.
    O that the living Harry had the temper
    And thinking on it makes me cry 'Alas!'
     Ere I taste bread, thou art in nothing less
      CRANMER approaches the Council table
  MARIA. O Lord!
    thee between a pair of sheets.
    No countermand; no such example have we.
     To match thy goodness? My life will be too short
  MRS. PAGE. Yes, by all means; if it be but to scrape the
    I something do excuse the thing I hate
  ISABELLA. Some one with child by him? My cousin Juliet?
    sea-sick, and himself little better, extremity of weather
  PISTOL. Captain, I thee beseech to do me favours.
    Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
    your friend.
  SCROOP. Glad am I that your Highness is so arm'd


    Within thine eyes sat twenty thousand deaths,  
    Thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land

    Which, till my infant fortune comes to years,
    to search the house. Shall I let them in?
    With that suit upon my back will I ravish her; first kill him,


     Who should express her goodliest. You have seen

  OTHELLO. I have a pain upon my forehead here.

  Whoe'er keeps me, let my heart be his guard,
    Must now confess, if they have any goodness,  
    And what thou think'st his very action speaks
    Wherefore you do so ill translate yourself  
    Upon this jump.                                       Exeunt

    I come to thee for charitable licence,
                                                     Exeunt severally
     menaces and maledictions against king and nobles; needless
    will last you some eight year or nine year. A tanner will last
    Your gracious self, embrace but my direction.
         Enter the KING, GLOUCESTER, WINCHESTER, YORK,
  BURGUNDY. I trust the ghost of Talbot is not there.
  MARCUS. With voices and applause of every sort,

    For she is wise, if I can judge of her,
Enter the KING, GLOUCESTER, WINCHESTER, YORK, SUFFOLK, SOMERSET, WARWICK,
    Against his liking. Think you it is so?
    You have tripp'd since.
     Not in this land shall he remain uncaught;
    Fate, show thy force: ourselves we do not owe;
                       Enter the Thieves again.
  DUMAIN. Hector trembles.
    Thou strok'st me and made much of me, wouldst give me
    and disgraces have of late knock'd to often at my door. I find my
      shall have
  Rom. I can tell you; but young Romeo will be older when you have
  IAGO. Go to, farewell. Do you hear, Roderigo?
    Is't not so?
  FLUELLEN. I will fetch him.                               Exit
  Bene. Bull Jove, sir, had an amiable low,
    Guess thou the rest: King Edward's friends must down.
    Abusing better men than they can be,
    glass of Rhenish wine on the contrary casket; for if the devil be
    rear'd
  KING HENRY. But, with the first of all your chief affairs,
    Some dreadful story hanging on thy tongue?
    Alone I fought in your Corioli walls,
    O, welcome, father!
    Hath any honour, but honour for those honours

    Nonsuits my mediators; for, "Certes," says he,
  TITUS. No, foolish Tribune, no; no son of mine-
  DUKE. Well, you'll answer this one day. Fare ye well.

    Fed in heart, whose flames aspire,
    Before I speak, too threat'ningly replies.
  LODOVICO. Madam, good night; I humbly thank your ladyship.
     awork by a reproveable badness in himself.
  Hero. I will do any modest office, my lord, to help my cousin to a
  Lear. Your name, fair gentlewoman?
  Beat. Yea, as sure is I have a thought or a soul.
  SPEED. If the ground be overcharg'd, you were best stick her.
    Your followers I will whisper to the business;
  CLEOPATRA. Well, get thee gone; farewell.
     scarcely allay.
  POET. You see this confluence, this great flood of visitors.
             As he forth walked on his way-
    To lock it in the wards of covert bosom,
  AJAX. I bade the vile owl go learn me the tenour of the
    Whose limbs were made in England, show us here
  Heard you confess you had the chain of him,
  WARWICK. The bloody parliament shall this be call'd,
    Shall for my legacy be sanctified
    Of all our fortunes.
    We'll not offend one stomach with our play.
    have not craft enough to colour. I know the good King and Queen
     of Kent's banishment.
    I am sick in displeasure to him, and whatsoever comes athwart his
    let me see 't! I'll in, I'll in; follow your friend's counsel;

  SPEED. Why then, how stands the matter with them?
  CANTERBURY. God and his angels guard your sacred throne,
    What's this for?
  MENENIUS. Be that you seem, truly your country's friend,
  I should in thought control your times of pleasure,
     Hast heavy substance; bleed'st not; speak'st; art sound.
    Thy end is truth's and beauty's doom and date.
  DUKE. Dear lad, believe it,
SCENE II.
     Cried 'Sisters, sisters! Shame of ladies! Sisters!
    Or be not, I'll not swear.
    No more can I be severed from your side
    Where I arrive, and my approach be shunn'd,
    Makes me afeard.
    Of heady murder, spoil, and villainy.
    reformed Signior Leonato of the matter. And, masters, do not



    And, madam, these for you; from whom I know not.
    Upon his party.
    Now counterfeit to swoon; why, now fall down;
    report for't but that he pays himself with being proud.
  OLIVIA. Fetch him off, I pray you; he speaks nothing but madman.  
  QUICKLY. I'll provide you a chain, and I'll do what I can to
    So that but one heart we can make of it;  



    And die in bands for this unmanly deed!
    Made out of her impatience- which not wanted
    I'll send her straight away. To-morrow
    Therefore I say with noble Buckingham
    Is very much unto the Prince and Claudio,
    As did the youthful Paris once to Greece,
    sick. There is a man haunts the forest that abuses our young
    Thou hast harp'd my fear aright. But one word more-
  PANDARUS. Who, Troilus? Troilus is the better man of the two.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Avaunt, perplexity! What shall we do
  CRESSIDA. More dregs than water, if my fears have eyes.
     that will put me in trust, to love him that is honest, to
    For shame, my Lord of Winchester, relent;
  Some get within him, take his sword away;

  PROVOST. He will hear none. He hath evermore had the liberty of the
    Alas, my friend and my dear countryman
  PUCELLE. Advance our waving colours on the walls;
    To me you cannot reach you play the spaniel,
  KING JOHN. Alack, thou dost usurp authority.

  AUTOLYCUS. Well, give me the moiety. Are you a party in this
    For, in my sense, 'tis happiness to die.
              with trumpets, to the gates
    BUCKINGHAM. My lord, I have consider'd in my mind
    obtain'd her, give her to Count Claudio.
                    Enter SURVEYOR
  COMINIUS. You are like to do such business.
  MARIA. Now, sir, thought is free. I pray you, bring your hand to
    Ay, marry, sir, now looks he like a king!
    They be alone.
    their father, making such pitiful dole over them that all the
  SECOND CITIZEN. We'll hear him, we'll follow him, we'll die with
  JULIA. Some love of yours hath writ to you in rhyme.
    And he shall think that thou, which knowest the way
    Prithee call Gardiner to me, my new secretary;


    Their pricks at my footfall; sometime am I
     carefully. And the noble and true-hearted Kent banish'd! his
  KATHERINA. No shame but mine; I must, forsooth, be forc'd
    Devise, wit; write, pen; for I am for whole volumes in folio.
    And most pernicious purpose! Seeming, seeming!
    From sincere motions, by intelligence,
    And, to be short, what not that's sweet and happy.  

  Lear. What dost thou profess? What wouldst thou with us?
    And better 'twere you troubled him than France.
    Hast cleans'd my bosom- I from thee departed
    The while I'll place you; then the boy shall sing;
    Sound drums and trumpets boldly and cheerfully;
    A pattern, precedent, and lively warrant  
  YORK. It may be I will go with you; but yet I'll pause,
    Soon kindled and soon burnt; carded his state;
    As when mine empire was your fellow too,

  Kent. Sir, I do know you,
  Hot. What may the King's whole battle reach unto?
    Pity the world, or else this glutton be,

  KATHERINA. Nay, I will give thee a kiss; now pray thee, love, stay.
  KING HENRY. What! Doth my uncle Burgundy revolt?
    To land his legions all as soon as I;
    But twenty times so much upon my wife.
    And fame in time to come canonize us;
  A Boy.

  SALERIO,      "    "    "     "     "
    Descend, and open your uncharged ports.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. There is a fat friend at your master's house,
  PRINCE JOHN. Is thy name Colville?  
    Nor either cares for him.
    Which of us fears.

    If this same were a churchyard where we stand,
    And tell fair Hero I am Claudio,


  IMOGEN. What, dear sir,
    My princely father then had wars in France
Enter Malcolm, old Siward, Macduff, and their Army, with boughs.
     So out went the candle, and we were left darkling.
  WESTMORELAND. The leaders, having charge from you to stand,
    Desires your Majesty to leave the field
     [To Goneril] Art not asham'd to look upon this beard?-
  CHILDREN. Ah for our father, for our dear Lord Clarence!
    There, take it to you, trenchers, cups, and all;
Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
    Soldiers, I thank you all; disperse yourselves;
    Thou Icarus; thy life to me is sweet.
    The clerk will ne'er wear hair on's face that had it.
  MRS. FORD. Nay, he will do it. 'Tis a goodly credit for you.
       Enter LORD CHAMBERLAIN, LORD SANDYS, and SIR


    Love's counsellor should fill the bores of hearing
    something peevish that way; but nobody but has his fault;
    nostrils.
    And from a mouth of honour quite cry down
                              A cry within, "A sail, a sail, a sail!"
    cannot enough commend- comes with him at my importunity to fill
    I will perform with a most Christian care.
    O Banquo, Banquo!
    Else ne'er could he so long protract his speech.  

  KATHARINE. In which I have commended to his goodness
    Will no more hear from thence.

    Pick'd from the chaff and ruin of the times,
    But, seeing thou fall'st on me so luckily,
    shrewd.
                                                   A bell rings.
    We will awake him and be sure of him.                Exeunt.
    stroke I'll run him up to the hilts, as I am a soldier.
  IACHIMO. Had I this cheek
    Give me thy fist, thy fore-foot to me give;
                           Enter LE BEAU
  Hot. I had rather hear Lady, my brach, howl in Irish.
    You made great Juno angry.
  PROTEUS. My shame and guilt confounds me.
    No, not for Venice.
  CAMBRIDGE. I do confess my fault,

under the KING'S feet on his right side
    Inch-thick, knee-deep, o'er head and ears a fork'd one!

    To hear Cominius speak, I'll keep at home.

  MIRANDA. Alack, what trouble  
    I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
    We are not furnish'd like Bohemia's son;
    Might be to you in Egypt. Yet, if you there  
    'em. Servant-monster, drink to me.
  So I for fear of trust, forget to say,
    Blush that the world goes well; who rather had,
  SIMPCOX. A fall off of a tree.  

    And, madam, if my uncle Marcus go,
  LEPIDUS. Till I shall see you in your soldier's dress,
  WILLIAMS. Keep thy word. Fare thee well.
        So the life that died with shame
    The Christian prince, King Henry, were he here.
    And would not be awak'd.                      [Music ceases]
    Than ever Greek did couple in his arms;
    Hast not the soft way which, thou dost confess,
    Besides, his expedition promises
  SCROOP. So service shall with steeled sinews toil,
    But par'd my present havings to bestow

    To sell a bargain well is as cunning as fast and loose;
    speaks small like a woman.

  PUCELLE. Christ's Mother helps me, else I were too weak.
    Since birth and heaven and earth, all three do meet

WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  SIR TOBY. Is't possible?
      sorrow;
  PISANIO. No, madam; for so long
    That gives not half so great a blow to hear
  JULIA. Lucetta, as thou lov'st me, let me have  
  Upon thy side, against my self I'll fight,
  Lear. It may be so, my lord.
                   An old hare hoar,

  MENAS. Come.
    Till their soul-fearing clamours have brawl'd down
    said; but more than that, he loved her-for indeed he was mad for
    His forces strong, his soldiers confident.

    With good old folks, and let them tell thee tales

  Reg. How now, you dog?
    There is a lord will hear you play to-night;
    And now to London with triumphant march,
    Hence will I to my ghostly father's cell,
    Which thou owedst yesterday.
  EVANS. Nay, Got's lords and his ladies! you must speak possitable,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Deep shame had struck me dumb, made me break off,  
  HELENA. Wherefore was I to this keen mockery born?
    Why doth your Highness look so pale and wan?
  BUCKINGHAM. Know then, it is your fault that you resign
  Leon. You must not, sir, mistake my niece. There is a kind of merry
  PROTEUS. Beshrew me, but you have a quick wit.
    Sit, Jessica. Look how the floor of heaven
    Who you saw sitting by me on the turf,
    Some airy devil hovers in the sky
    hands, and all our house in a great perplexity; yet did not this
    That Chiron and the damn'd Demetrius

    out of weak surmises, but from proof as strong as my grief and as
  BOLINGBROKE. How long a time lies in one little word!
  PAROLLES. My meaning in't, I protest, was very honest in the behalf
  GLOUCESTER. What news abroad?
Another part of the field.
    For anything he shall be charg'd withal;
ACT III. SCENE I.
  HELENA. Then I confess,
    Ingrateful Rome requites with foul contempt,
    Candied with ice, caudle thy morning taste
    Witnessing storms to come, woe, and unrest;

  RICHARD. Thus do I hope to shake King Henry's head.
  Ben. Nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he dares, being
    Or manage it to part these men with me.
  Peter. I saw no man use you at his pleasure. If I had, my weapon
    her as much in beauty as the first of May doth the last of
  LUCIUS. So, sir. I desire of you
  CLOWN. Alas, poor soul!
    Stoop tamely to the foot of majesty.
    But, Warwick, after God, thou set'st me free,
             Come, blade, my breast imbrue.      [Stabs herself]

    And entertain'd 'em deeply in her heart.
  Marg. A maid, and stuff'd! There's goodly catching of cold.
    such unity in the proofs. The mantle of Queen Hermione's; her
    From mine own knowledge. As nearly as I may,
  ALCIBIADES. My lords, then, under favour, pardon me
    Ask me not what I would be, if I were not Thersites; for I care
                                                 Exeunt SERVANTS
  Queen. Let her come in.  
    That counterfeit'st the person of a king?
    Of more arrivance.
    Out of a great deal of old iron I chose forth.  
  IAGO. Did you perceive how he laughed at his vice?
  Hor. Not when I saw't.
    womanhood and the witness of a good conscience, pursue
    to be blamed. Marry, if he that writ it had played Pyramus, and
    Is in base durance and contagious prison;
    Are dogg'd with two strange followers.
  PROTEUS. There is no news, my lord; but that he writes
    Have we in hiding us? This way the Romans
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. I shall.                                    Exit.
    I never spake with her, saw her, nor heard from her,
                         EROS following
    describe them; and according to my description, level at my

    To stab at half an hour of my life.
                                                      Exit BOYET
    Whoever shoots at him, I set him there;
    With bag and baggage. Many thousand on's
                                                    Exit SILVIUS
  CROMWELL. Do.
    would be none left to rail upon thee, and then thou wouldst sin
    Speak to me.  
    Must give my tendance to.
    And left behind him Richard, his only son,
  STEPHANO. That's most certain.
    Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold;
    Begot upon itself, born on itself.
  PARIS. I know what 'tis to love,
    Albeit the quality of the time and quarrel
  MENENIUS. I will tell you;
    And shrieks like mandrakes torn out of the earth,
    And let your reason with your choler question
  PROVOST. Happily
    A sequester from liberty, fasting, and prayer,
    As did that one; and that, in my regard,
  PATRICIANS. I would they were a-bed.
  YORK. And so he did; but yet I like it not,
    rail at him. O worthy satisfaction! Would it were otherwise: that
  SICINIUS. Make them be strong, and ready for this hint,
    lying. He hath wronged me in some humours; I should
    tender, a kind of tender, made afar off by Sir Hugh here. Do
    of the subject held the Duke to be wise.
  FIRST OUTLAW. That's not so, sir; we are your enemies.

    This ring I gave him, when he parted from me,
The forest
  To make a rescue?
    Go, fellow, get thee home, provide some carts,  
    To his protection, calls him Posthumus Leonatus,
    prove a shrunk panel, and like green timber warp, warp.
    And pluck my magic garment from me. So,
  SUFFOLK. No marvel, an it like your Majesty,
    And saved my life saying 'not you'.

  ARCHIDAMUS, a lord of Bohemia
            Enter, below, Brabantio, in his nightgown, and
  HOLOFERNES. O, I smell false Latin; 'dunghill' for unguem.
  HUBERT. But with my breath I can revive it, boy.

  JULIET. Must die to-morrow! O, injurious law,
    I know not what he shall. God send him well!
                         Enter A MESSENGER
  Which on it had conceited characters,
  CALIBAN. I shall be pinch'd to death.

  STANLEY. None good, my liege, to please you with  
  And left the ship, then sinking-ripe, to us;
    Amaze the welkin with your broken staves!
    And will he steal out of his wholesome bed
  FIRST CITIZEN. I say unto you, what he hath done famously he did it
  TOUCHSTONE. [Aside] I am not in the mind but I were better to be
    And what's to come of my despised time
    Hath yok'd a nation strong, train'd up in arms.
    Of Charles his father.
    Quicken a rock, and make you dance canary
    And turn'd my captive state to liberty,
                Enter three or four servitors
    She eat no meat to-day, nor none shall eat;
    That knew'st this was the Prince, and wouldst adventure
    Wilt thou upon the high and giddy mast
  SOLDIER. O noble Emperor, do not fight by sea;
    Which, being writ to me, shall be deliver'd
  BRUTUS. Get you hence, sirrah; saucy fellow, hence!
Enter DROMIO OF EPHESUS
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  MOTH. Out of your favours, heavenly spirits, vouchsafe
    But, first or last, your fine Egyptian cookery
    Thus may we gather honey from the weed,
  PATIENCE. Do you note
    incharitable dog!
    And I will turn thy falsehood to thy heart,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    washed with them, but relents not.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    And, to speak troth, I have forgot our way;
          With the help of your good hands.
    Let fools do good, and fair men call for grace:
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. To me, sir? Why, you gave no gold to me.
    himself on thee, he will practise against thee by poison, entrap
    But end it by some means for Imogen.
    And never false. Soft, ho! what trunk is here
  Ber. Looks it not like the King? Mark it, Horatio.
    Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
Enter CALIBAN, with a burden of wood. A noise of thunder heard
                                               [CLARENCE sleeps]  
    Prithee return. With thy approach I know
    There yours, Lord Scroop of Masham; and, Sir Knight,
    christen'd.
    Between the pale complexion of true love
    'Ban 'Ban, Ca-Caliban,  

    There's none stands under more calumnious tongues

  SHALLOW. Nay, but understand me.
  HELENA. You see it lawful then. It is no more
  SECOND SERVANT. O, this is it that makes your servants droop!
  ESCALUS. How would you live, Pompey- by being a bawd? What do you
    Our rustic garden's barren; and I care not
    Could to no issue of true honour bring.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    See who it is.
    certainly whipt out of the court.
    These unknown friends to's welcome, for it is  
    And, noble Dauphin, albeit we swear
    How honourable ladies sought my love,
  SALISBURY. May this be possible? May this be true?
  CLEOPATRA. I must stay his time.
    Out of this world. Tell him in death I bless'd him,
  King. Thanks, dear my lord.
  PETRUCHIO. Hortensio, to what end are all these words?
  BRANDON. He.
  ANTONY. Will you be patient? Will you stay awhile?
    Before you find it other. All the regions
    Some rare noteworthy object in thy travel.
    husband and use him as he uses thee. So, farewell.
    And tell me truly what thou think'st of him.

    not to come, it will be now; if it be not now, yet it will come:
    contented- why is he not then? In respect of the love he bears
    Would be unparallel'd.
    And, for the most, become much more the better
  KING JOHN. Our strong possession and our right for us!
               Lulla, lulla, lullaby; lulla, lulla, lullaby.
    And say 'These wounds I had on Crispian's day.'
  CAESAR. The breaking of so great a thing should make
    That might have known my place. I see no sense for't,
                             Enter Kent.
    If son to Talbot, die at Talbot's foot.
    compremises between you.
     And from her derogate body never spring
  IMOGEN. Your mother too.
  ADRIAN. It must needs be of subtle, tender, and delicate
    AN OLD ATHENIAN
    They should be good men, their affairs as righteous;

  SNOUT. Therefore another prologue must tell he is not a lion.
    The hostess of the meeting. Pray you bid
  TROILUS. Nay, stay; by Jove, I will not speak a word:
    Whiles, like a doe, I go to find my fawn,
  HELENA. You do advance your cunning more and more.
    Our waggon is prepar'd, and time revives us.

    My love and fear glu'd many friends to thee;
    Is resty grown; he bade me take a trumpet
  OCTAVIA. Ay me most wretched,

  SERVANT. Please your lordship, here is the wine.
      Flourish and march. Enter, at a distance, KING EDWARD,
    should fight withal, if he be alive.
  BOTTOM. Mounsieur Cobweb; good mounsieur, get you your weapons in
  LUCENTIO. Tranio, let's go.
    While other men, of slender reputation,
  KATHERINA. Forward, I pray, since we have come so far,
  THURIO. Madam, my lord your father would speak with you.
ACT II. SCENE 1

     With something rich about me. From that place
    Acquire too high a fame when him we serve's away.
    And, in that ease, I'll tell thee my disease.
    That I should love a bright particular star
    A many fools that stand in better place,
  BRUTUS. You say you are a better soldier:
  HECTOR. Hold you still, I say.
    flouting; we cannot hold.
    Who doth desire to see you.
    Lest I, by marking of your rage, forget  
  LUCENTIO. Here, madam:
                           Enter an AEDILE
                                        Sound a flourish. Exeunt
  BASSET. Why, what is he? As good a man as York!
    a steward still, the fellow of servants, and not worthy to touch
    cannot scratch mine ear. Prithee, tell her but worky-day fortune.
    To imitate the graces of the gods,

    Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony, who, though he had
Before OLIVIA's house
    To see if any mean to shrink from me.                 Exeunt
         Many a man his life hath sold
  FRENCHMAN. Sir, we have known together in Orleans.
    That lift your vassal hands against my head
  TYRREL. I will dispatch it straight.                      Exit
    That thou neglect me not with that opinion
  ANTONIO. Well; tell me now what lady is the same
ACT I. SCENE 2.
  RODERIGO.             Yes, sir, I have indeed.
      If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
    And, sister, as the winds give benefit
                                               Exit an ATTENDANT
    fortunes turn Turk with me-with two Provincial roses on my raz'd
    grease of a mutton as wholesome as the sweat of a man? Shallow,
                   Enter Horatio and Marcellus.

           Enter GLOUCESTER aloft, between two BISHOPS.
                   Enter a SERVINGMAN
    We'll make foul weather with despised tears;
     My snuff and loathed part of nature should
    speed well in it, the Duke shall both speak of it and extend to
  GRUMIO. Error i' th' bill, sir; error i' th' bill! I commanded the
    And gave you such a masterly report
    Men of great worth resorted to this forest,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  DUKE. Too old, by heaven! Let still the woman take
    And with full line of his authority,
    Thy tongue, thy face, thy limbs, actions, and spirit,
  MESSENGER. Worthy Andronicus, ill art thou repaid
    head
    A smiling with a sigh, as if the sigh

    speak to me; for I am Trinculo-be not afeard-thy good
    That one short minute gives me in her sight.
    And make a dearth in this revolting land.
  AUFIDIUS. Say no more:
     I am worse than e'er I was.
    uncle of mine taught me to speak, who was in his youth an inland
    Mother, good night.- Indeed, this counsellor

  PETRUCHIO. Marry, so I mean, sweet Katherine, in thy bed.
    Let's tune, and to it lustily awhile.
  SERVILIUS. If I might beseech you, gentlemen, to repair some other
    Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent.
  ARVIRAGUS. Say, where shall's lay him?
    still.
    The hand-fast to her lord. I have given him that
  DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO, fantastical Spaniard
Enter POSTHUMUS
    I would not have him know so much by me.
  BASSANIO. Madam, you have bereft me of all words;
  Bene. Ha! not for the wide world!
    are born to do benefits; and what better or properer can we call
    By Jove, I am not covetous for gold,
    And thus I'll curb her mad and headstrong humour.
    With sweet enlargement doth dismiss me hence.
    Keep house and port and servants, as I should;
    As in his shape. Go, sirrah, to my cell;
    And quarter'd in her heart-he doth espy
    height
  OTHELLO. That's he that was Othello. Here I am.
  CHIRON. And that would she for twenty thousand more.
  YORK. Of Salisbury, who can report of him,
  BASTARD. Brief, then; and what's the news?
    Spotted with strawberries in your wife's hand?
    Gives token of a goodly day to-morrow.
    rest of th' anatomy.
               Alexandria. CLEOPATRA'S palace
    My life and education both do learn me
    And drop my blood for drachmas than to wring
  SUFFOLK. To me.
    As a sick girl. Ye gods! It doth amaze me
    and I doubt not you sustain what y'are worthy of by your attempt.
    Be not afraid, good youth; I will not have you;
    Yet all goes well; yet all our joints are whole.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    That hast so long walk'd hand in hand with time.
    Being of those virtues vacant. I fear nothing
    Three parts of that receipt I had for Calais
  NORTHUMBERLAND. His noble kinsman-most degenerate king!
   Leaving his body as a paradise
    Drew all such humors from him.
  DOLL. How, you fat fool! I scorn you.
    What sudden anger's this? How have I reap'd it?
  Prince. And for that offence
    In nature is a tyranny; it hath been  
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    consequence; it must be so. Art going to prison, Pompey?

  PORTIA. Thou hast some suit to Caesar, hast thou not?
    Out of those many regist'red in promise,
    Should not upbraid our course. For all the rest,
  YORK. Now heaven forfend! The holy maid with child!
    With sweet rehearsal of my morning's dream.
    O Antony! Nay, I will take thee too:  
    Thy brother was a furtherer in the act.
    Upon my party, I'd revolt, to make
  SOLDIER. Who?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. By Dromio?
    Within ten year it will make itself ten, which is a goodly  
    To wind about my love with circumstance;
    Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.  
    And they shall find dear deer of us, my friends.
    proof.
  PORTIA. Nor for yours neither. have ungently, Brutus,

    university.
  FIRST SERVANT. And, till the tears that she hath shed for thee
    And she is mine; and all my right of her
    With spectacles on nose and pouch on side,
    There is no force in the decrees of Venice.
  HECTOR. Wert thou an oracle to tell me so,
  PANDARUS. Grace! Not so, friend; honour and lordship are my titles.
    modesty that you will not extort from me what I am willing to
    Which here we waken to our country's good,
    Amen.
    T' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
    So you, to study now it is too late,
    name is not Master Cesario; nor this is not my nose neither.
    again with drinking, pick out mine eyes with a ballad-maker's pen
  That looks on tempests and is never shaken;
  AUFIDIUS. Only their ends

  BAPTISTA. I know not what to say; but give me your hands.
  ARVIRAGUS. Thus did he answer me; yet said hereafter
  MACMORRIS. By Chrish, la, tish ill done! The work ish give over,
    Wounding supposed peace. All these bold fears
    counterfeit, or that hot termagant Scot had paid me scot and lot
  PRINCE JOHN. Good morrow, cousin Warwick, good morrow.
    That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,  
    We'll consecrate the steps that Ajax makes
    To the sea-side, and put his cause and quarrel
  That mourn'd for fashion, ignorant what to fear,
  KING JOHN. Cousin, go draw our puissance together.  
    As he whose brow with homely biggen bound
    An she agree, within her scope of choice
  VOLUMNIA. Ay, fool; is that a shame? Note but this, fool:
    With a foul traitor's name stuff I thy throat;
    he will maintain his argument as well as any military man in the
    The man is innocent.
    sweep the court clean of such filth as thou art. Thou hast most
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  Kent. It is both he and she-
  When in dead night thy fair imperfect shade,

    And I will love thee and prefer thee for it.
  OTHELLO.                     Being done, there is no pause.
    With the most noble bottom of our fleet
    Under the wings of our Protector's grace,
    But he shall know I am as good
    He hath some message to deliver us.
    Are mere usurpers, tyrants, and what's worse,
    Come.                                                 Exeunt
    Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have,
    A grain, a dust, a gnat, a wandering hair,
    Forestall prescience, and esteem no act
    Passing these flats, are taken by the tide-
    Which sorrow is always toward ourselves, not heaven,
    The closing up of our most wretched eyes.
    And paint your face, and use you like a fool.

  I know it by their pale and deadly looks.
  LOVEL. Here is the head of that ignoble traitor,
    The brother blindly shed the brother's blood,
    And for this cause awhile we must neglect
    Come like shadows, so depart!

    To empirics; or to dissever so
    And, ev'n in kind love, I do conjure thee,
    cowl-staff? Look how you drumble. Carry them to the laundress
    And I loved her that she did pity them.
    And prophesying with accents terrible
    For nought but provender, and when he's old, cashier'd.
    And to our purposes he lives no more.

  MARINERS. All lost! to prayers, to prayers! all lost!
    apples. But, come; since this bar in law makes us friends, it

    Beshrew your heart for sending me about

    and bed her, and rid the house of her! Come on.
  PAROLLES. Why, 'tis the rarest argument of wonder that hath shot

  To any sensual feast with thee alone:
    the monster one word further and, by this hand, I'll turn

  MARIANA. Fear me not.
    A pudency so rosy, the sweet view on't
    Nor how to shroud yourself from enemies?
    Send her another; never give her o'er,  
    'Tis too respective and too sociable
  CASSIO.             Most heathenish and most gross!

    Will make but little for his benefit.
  CORIOLANUS. Hear'st thou, Mars?
  TRANIO. Is 't possible, friend Licio, that Mistress Bianca
    That he hath breath'd in my dishonour here.
  And that which governs me to go about,
    Why, that the Moor first gave to Desdemona,
    Tranio is chang'd into Lucentio.
  Queen. I shall obey you;
    This peroration with such circumstance?

  PANDARUS. Come, come, what need you blush? Shame's a baby.-Here she
  AJAX. The proclamation!
    And so, espous'd to death, with blood he seal'd
  KING. Then shall we have a match. I have letters sent me
  Who all their parts of me to thee did give,
    To be High Steward; next, the Duke of Norfolk,
    With those that have but little; this must be patch'd
    Ay, but her forehead's low, and mine's as high.
    Have you climb'd up to walls and battlements,  
  to a woman-one that claims me, one that haunts me, one
  Upon her head a platted hive of straw,
  Kent. Ay.
    And will employ thee in some service presently.  
  PISANIO. O gracious lady,
  ARMADO. The armipotent Mars, of lances the almighty,
  MOTH. [Aside to COSTARD] They have been at a great feast of
    But one thing to rejoice and solace in,
    But that my resolution helps me. Milford,
    What foolish boldness brought thee to their mercies
    Distinguish him from others, he did keep
    --[To the Musician] O, I cry you mercy, friend. Go you with me,
  TROILUS. Have I not tarried?
    As men in rage strike those that wish them best,
    He is as worthy for an empress' love
    And look on death itself! Up, up, and see
    The thoughts of others! Pray you, tell me this:
  Glou. Let him fly far.
     With robber's hands my hospitable favours
    well.
    Now where's the Bastard's braves, and Charles his gleeks?
    off the next tide.
    Will bring this labour to an happy end.                    Exeunt
  SERVANT. No, sir, Helen. Could not you find out that by her
    And put yourself under his shroud,
    But like a common and an outward man

  IMOGEN. He never can meet more mischance than come
    As to your soul seems good. Give me your hand;
    Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself,
  BAGOT -     "      "   "     "
    Tell me, sweet lord, what is't that takes from thee  
    The greatness of his person.
     But not one follower.
    Should be delivered to his Holiness
     And hardly shall I carry out my side,
    Mirth cannot move a soul in agony.
     If I could bear it longer and not fall
  CASSANDRA. [Within] Cry, Troyans, cry.
    or called, Don Adriano de Armado.
    Stiffen the sinews, summon up the blood,
  TRANIO. You will be schoolmaster,
     Let pity not be believ'd!' There she shook
    And not relent, or not compassion him?
    Than to make up a free determination
    To take our brother Clarence to your grace.
    Look for the news that the Guildhall affords.           Exit
          [As they are going out,] enter Edgar [disguised].
    It is supposed the fair creature died-  
    that reverend vice, that grey iniquity, that father ruffian, that

    That gives me this bold show of courtesy.             Kisses her.
  ANTONY. Where is he?
     All you unpublish'd virtues of the earth,

  MACBETH. Good repose the while.
    villain.
    And then down falls again.
    Cannot make better note.  
    Right true it is your son Lucentio here
    A partial slander sought I to avoid,
    But 'tis no wit to go.
  Prince. No, I'll be sworn, unless you call three fingers on the

  ROSALIND. Do you not know I am a woman? When I think, I must speak.
  BRUTUS. Hark, he is arrived.
    And for your Grace, and you, my gracious lords.
    And speak as loud as Mars. By Jupiter,
    Unstate his happiness, and be stag'd to th' show
  TIMON. Ladies, there is an idle banquet attends you;
    Their wives have sense like them; they see and smell
    Yea, like fair fruit in an unwholesome dish,
AEGEON. But seven years since, in Syracuse, boy,
  SIMPLE. I may not conceal them, sir.
    Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
  BERTRAM. May I be bold to acquaint his Grace you are gone about it?


    Sings this to thee, 'Thou single wilt prove none'.
      And they thy glory through my grief will show.
    My low and humble name to propagate
    To Master Brook you yet shall hold your word;
  A PAGE, Servant to the Countess of Rousillon

ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What's her name?
  Doug. Now, by my sword, I will kill all his coats;
  How can my muse want subject to invent
    would I might never stir!-and 'tis a postmaster's boy.
  CADE. Up Fish Street! down Saint Magnus' Corner! Kill and knock
  QUEEN. And, to kill the marvel,
    Meaning to keep her closely at my cell
  Reserve their character with golden quill,
    Have caus'd him by new act of parliament
  EMILIA.                       Is he not jealous?
    The crown o' th' earth doth melt. My lord!
    And when he thinks, good easy man, full surely
    Be valued 'gainst your wife's commandment.  
    She is a woman, therefore to be won.

DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    If you poison us, do we not die? And if you wrong us, shall we
    This do thou for my love; and so let him,

    We men may say more, swear more, but indeed
    To call them both a pair of crafty knaves.
    ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last by the
    Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,

          'If that you will France win,
    Nor play at subtle games-fair virtues all,
  2. Mus. Pray you put up your dagger, and put out your wit.
  MESSENGER. Almost at point to enter.
    From flow'ry tenderness? If I must die,
  CLOTEN. Bring this apparel to my chamber; that is the second thing
  FIRST PETITIONER. I pray, my lord, pardon me; I took ye for my Lord
    Change slander to remorse. That is some good.
  CASCA. Your ear is good. Cassius, what night is this!
                                             [Throws them down.]
    Become themselves in her, that the holy priests
  So love be thou, although to-day thou fill
    his boots very smooth, like unto the sign of the Leg, and breeds
    That is, a woman; if you be more, you're none;
  ALL. A deed without a name.  
    Finding thee fit for bloody villainy,
    And consciences that will not die in debt
    father; for the young gentleman, according to Fates and Destinies
  JAQUENETTA. Lord, how wise you are!  
    To be his groom. Thou wert dignified enough,
    Caesar made here; but made not here his brag
    Stand I condemn'd for pride and scorn so much?
  SIMPLE. Book of Riddles! Why, did you not lend it to Alice
  CAESAR. He is a dreamer; let us leave him. Pass.

  BASTARD.  [Aside]  O prudent discipline! From north to south,

    will make him scratch his beard.
    Richer than sea and land? O theft most base,
  BUSHY. 'Tis nothing but conceit, my gracious lady.

  YORK. The third son, Duke of Clarence, from whose line
    thy colour,

  Samp. [aside to Gregory] Is the law of our side if I say ay?
  The basest weed outbraves his dignity:  
    And yet no day without a deed to crown it.
    many is kill'd?
  Sure, these are but imaginary wiles,
    The native mightiness and fate of him.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Your betters have endur'd me say my mind,
    To th' vulgar eye, that he bears all things fairly
    Or wallow naked in December snow
    The routed fly. So thy grand captain, Antony,
    A conduct overland to Milford Haven.
  ARIEL. Yes, Caliban her son.

    hostess; farewell, Doll. You see, my good wenches, how men of

    When she has so much English.
    'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands;
    But yet methinks my father's execution
    I charge thee in the Prince's name obey.  
    He still hath held them; that to's power he would  
  KING HENRY. I embrace it.
    By working wreakful vengeance on thy foes.

    I would have salv'd it with a longer treatise.
    O, me alone! Make you a sword of me?
    That broker that still breaks the pate of faith,
    As being got, your father then in France,
    proclaim myself what I am; I will now take the lecher; he  
    Bear him to th' rock Tarpeian, and from thence

    Where will doth mutiny with wit's regard.
    For if thou path, thy native semblance on,
  Weary with toil, I haste me to my bed,
    Or to the meanest groom.
    Now, afore God, this reverend holy friar,  
    If thou hast slain Lysander in his sleep,

    Another stain, as big as hell can hold,
    It were not for your quiet nor your good,
    your several dwelling-places; and not to wear, handle, or
                     Enter three or four citizens
  SLENDER. I hope, sir, I will do as it shall become one that
    Now call we our high court of parliament;
  PAGE. I am glad to see your worships well. I thank you for

    says, your pawn till it be brought you.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    I have charged thee not to haunt about my doors.
    Partly that I have need of such a youth
    For 'tis not life that I have begg'd so long;
                          SCENE XIV.
  PHILOTUS. Good day at once.
    hide my head. Yond same cloud cannot choose but fall by
    Sleep when he wakes, and creep into the jaundice
    dropsies, that huge bombard of sack, that stuff'd cloakbag of
    In a rich chair of state, opposing freely
    To worthy danger and deserved death.
    Is that temptation that doth goad us on
  Wor. But yet I would your father had been here.
  Why of eyes' falsehood hast thou forged hooks,
  DUKE SENIOR. True is it that we have seen better days,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    liking his father to singing-man of Windsor- thou didst swear to
    Is longer than his foreskirt. By this time

    To say the dead are well. Bring it to that,
  Leon. Signior Benedick, no; for then were you a child.
  KING JOHN. Death.
    Whom God preserve better than you would wish!-
    I would my skill were subject to thy curse.
    The Earl of Salisbury craveth supply
  CAESAR. Who is it in the press that calls on me?
    When it doth tax itself; as these black masks
    he desired their worships to think it was his infirmity. Three or
    here in the city- I mean of us o' th' right-hand file? Do you?
    I am so fraught with curious business that
    Not Hermia but Helena I love:
    Haply a woman's voice may do some good,
  GLOUCESTER. No doubt, no doubt. O, 'tis a perilous boy;
    And that I'll spend for him.
  TITINIUS. What, Pindarus! Where art thou, Pindarus?
    To their whole being! I am rapt, and cannot cover
    That shall first spring and be most delicate.
  RUGBY. Here, sir.  
    them. But for which of my good parts did you first suffer love
    With a light heart; trust not my holy order,
    Not by might mast'red, but by special grace.
  PROTEUS. I do.
  LUCIO. [To ISABELLA] Art avis'd o' that? More on't.
    There's half a dozen sweets.
    We'll thwack him hence with distaffs.

    Put me to some impatience. Though I lose
    That he did plot the Duke of Gloucester's death,
    That seeks his praise more than he fears his peril,

  AGUECHEEK. Never in your life, I think; unless you see canary put
  CAPHIS. I go, sir.  
    Strike at thy life. Griev'd I, I had but one?
                            Re-enter FRANCIS
  KING. Well excus'd.
    Leave us to cure this cause.
    That fears his fellowship to die with us.
  LUCETTA. Pray heav'n he prove so when you come to him.
    him; but they know his conditions and lay him in straw. I have  

  GRATIANO. Let me play the fool.
    the way of winking.
    lady sing in Welsh.
    Conformable as other household Kates.
  Kent. My life I never held but as a pawn
  CASSIUS. Bear with him, Brutus; 'tis his fashion.
    Yet have I fierce affections, and think

DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  DUKE. Your suit's unprofitable; stand up, I say.

    Note if your lady strain his entertainment
    satisfy my opinion, and partly for the satisfaction, look you, of
  Ham. Then is doomsday near! But your news is not true. Let me
    Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts. Tybalt's death
    rancour--O God, that I were a man! I would eat his heart in the

  TITUS. Now, masters, draw.  [They shoot]  O, well said, Lucius!
    Durst wag his tongue in censure. When these suns-
  FALSTAFF. I would all the world might be cozen'd, for I have

    And give as soft attachment to thy senses
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM

    woman! a sweet woman!
    Which thou dost glare with.
    And our indentures tripartite are drawn;
    my mistress.
    'Tis but the short'ning of my life one day.
  NORFOLK. Here, most gracious liege.
  WINCHESTER. Gloucester, thou wilt answer this before the
    Old I do wax; and from my weary limbs
  SEBASTIAN. Let go thy hand.  
  ALICE. D'elbow.
  DOLABELLA. Madam, he will. I know't.                [Flourish]
  MALVOLIO. To bed? Ay, sweetheart, and I'll come to thee.
    What, not a word? You take your pennyworths now!
    answerable sequestration- put but money in thy purse. These Moors

  Jul. Come hither, nurse. What is yond gentleman?
    Which thou pourest down from these swelling heavens
  go over shoes in the grime of it.
    Of palisadoes, frontiers, parapets,
    To catch my death with jauncing up and down!
    ever man went to Arthur's bosom. 'A made a finer end, and went
    Pale as thy smock! When we shall meet at compt,
  FIRST OFFICER. This is the man; do thy office.
  Pol. 'And in part him, but,' you may say, 'not well.
    For depravation, to square the general sex
    Name Cressid, and thy life shall be as safe
    That he awaking when the other do

    reformation. There shall be in England seven halfpenny loaves
  IDEN. Alexander Iden, that's my name;
  ANTONIO. Put up your sword. If this young gentleman
    A golden mesh t' entrap the hearts of men
    My sighing breast shall be thy funeral bell;
    Thus to retort your manifest appeal,
    But that his negligence, his folly, fear,
    Is leaden servitor to dull delay;
  ANTONIO. Long live Gonzalo!
  YOUNG LUCIUS, a boy, son to Lucius
    Tam lentus audis scelera? tam lentus vides?
      peasant!
               Lovers, make moan;
    That tempts most cunningly. But be not tempted.
    When I a fat and bean-fed horse beguile,
  ALICE. De arm, madame.
  ROSALINE. Madam, came nothing else along with that?
  KING HENRY. Hast thou not sworn allegiance unto me?
    Such as he hath observ'd in noble ladies
    Becomes as aged, and doth beg the alms
  MENENIUS. Come, come, peace.

    The royal captain of this ruin'd band
    So many hours must I contemplate;
    And so much duty as my mother show'd
    Out of my way, unless he bid 'em; but



    That came too lag to see him buried.
    another man is a fool when he dedicates his behaviours to love,
    Such gain the cap of him that makes him fine,
  MRS. PAGE. Trust me, he beat him most pitifully.
  CAESAR. No, my most wronged sister: Cleopatra
    King's fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis.
                   Exeunt all but the KING, KATHERINE, and ALICE
  Hopeless to find, yet loath to leave unsought
  BRUTUS. Away, slight man!
  Creep in 'twixt vows, and change decrees of kings,
  PAROLLES. I know you are the Muskos' regiment,

    morning. What I think I utter, and spend my malice in my breath.
    yet I should bear no cross if I did bear you; for I think you
    garland too; for the garland he might have worn himself, and the
    Now to that name my courage prove my title!
  TWO VOLSCIAN GUARDS
    you from your gyves; if not, you shall have your full time of
    keep thieves in my house? I have search'd, I have enquired, so
    leave of them; for their joy waded in tears. There was casting up
    Let him be whipt and hang'd.
    With your stiff age. But unto us it is
    To a loud trumpet and a point of war?
    A thing more made of malice than of duty;
    By looking back what I have left behind
    She weeps, and says her Henry is depos'd:
    And when you find him evenly deriv'd
     How near's the other army?
    Of all his people shall revolt from him,
  LORD BARDOLPH. My lord, I'll tell you what:
  CAESAR. Bring him through the bands.           Exit EUPHRONIUS
  BURGUNDY. Pray God she prove not masculine ere long,

    Or I will throw thee from my care for ever
  FIRST OUTLAW. Where is the gentleman that was with her?
  WARWICK is hoarse with calling thee to arms.
  KING. Then leave this chat; and, good Berowne, now prove
    In all my miseries; but thou hast forc'd me,
  SAY. What of that?
    For though my soul disputes well with my sense
    Of you, my gentle cousin Westmoreland,
    Is to determine of the coronation.

  Dog. Come, let them be opinion'd.
    A spider steep'd, and one may drink, depart,
    Did bear him like a noble gentleman.
    Patience is stale, and I am weary of it.
                                                     [Beats him]
  ANTONIO. To-morrow, sir; best first go see your lodging.
  ISABELLA. 'Tis set down so in heaven, but not in earth.
              Those be rubies, fairy favours,
    His promises were, as he then was, mighty;
    Should have a back or second, that might hold
  HASTINGS. If they have done this deed, my noble lord-

    You had not found me here so musical.
    So, get you gone. If this penetrate, I will consider your music
  IAGO. What was he that you followed with your sword?
    And here, I take it, is the doctor come.
    Like a right gypsy hath at fast and loose
  MRS. PAGE. Pray heaven it be not so that you have such a
    prick'd you. Wilt thou make as many holes in an enemy's battle as
     thy back o'er the dirt. Thou hadst little wit in thy bald crown
  HELENA. And no.
    Do feel the treason sharply, yet the traitor

    I have seen her wear it; and she reckon'd it
    Will leap to be his friend. For us, you know
    Cesario, by the roses of the spring,
    the instance, shepherd.
    Therefore I pray you. I'll see you by and by.    [Sits down]
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Thus have you breath'd your curse


    Suffer them now, and they'll o'ergrow the garden
    A marble monument!
    Never like thee. O, let an old man embrace thee;  
    Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks:
  PEDANT. Thou liest: his father is come from Padua, and here looking
  ROSALINE. Shall I come upon thee with an old saying, that was a man
    Now, this no more dishonours you at all
    Go forth and fetch their conqu'ring Caesar in;
  FORD. Now, sir, who's a cuckold now? Master Brook,
  Hero. And when I liv'd I was your other wife;       [Unmasks.]

  BRUTUS. And my heart too.
    The nonpareil of this. O, vengeance, vengeance!
    Lord?
    And let our army be discharged too.
  ALL. Tribunes! patricians! citizens! What, ho! Sicinius!
    Th' advantage of his absence took the King,
    as halfpence are; every one fault seeming monstrous till his
    And that at my bidding you could so stand up.
    Many a battle have I won in France,
    apparel? Looks he as freshly as he did the day he wrestled?
    You would drink freely; but my love to ye
      piece
    Is south the chamber, and the chimneypiece
    Being the right idea of your father,
  KING RICHARD. Is the chair empty? Is the sword unsway'd?

    Accompanied but with a barbarous Moor,
    Makes all these bodements.

  Ham. Not so, my lord. I am too much i' th' sun.
    Have broke their sleep with thoughts,
  King. Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,-
  Leon. But, brother Anthony--
    My heart to her but as guest-wise sojourn'd,
  FIRST MURDERER. I thought thou hadst been resolute.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Be you contented, wearing now the garland,
Troy. A street
    To rest mistrustful where a noble heart
  CASSIO.                          What make you from home?
    And then grace us in the disgrace of death;
  Friar. On Thursday, sir? The time is very short.
    Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels,
    Never durst poet touch a pen to write
    Now present here together; that's to say
    worship that her husband is seldom from home, but she
    Resolveth from his figure 'gainst the fire?
    And, in record, left them the heirs of shame.
    Out of his scattering and unsure observance.
  LUCIO. Mum.
  LEONTES. You knew of his departure, as you know
    It were a shame to let this land by lease;
    eight o'clock, to have amends.
    Be gone, I say; for till you do return  
  SIR TOBY. Thy reason, dear venom, give thy reason.
  PRINCE JOHN. We meet like men that had forgot to speak.
    That mercy does, for calumny will sear
    favour, sir, why, give God thanks and make no boast of it; and
    How much in duty I am bound to both.
  BARDOLPH. Corporal Nym, an thou wilt be friends, be friends; an
  Most true it is, that I have looked on truth
                         Enter the Prince.

    humidity, this gross wat'ry pumpion; we'll teach him to
     My master calls me; I must not say no.
    The crown-imperial; lilies of all kinds,
    If sad and merry madness equal be.
    The Duchess, by his subornation,
    And certainly in strange unquietness.
    The trumpet sounds; be copious in exclaims.
    Err'd in this point which now you censure him,  
    Than that a sister, by redeeming him,
    Bully knight! Bully Sir John! Speak from thy lungs
  Kent. As 'tis said, the bastard son of Gloucester.

    In sign of what you are, not to reward
    But I do prize it at my love before
  ANTONIO. Why, in good time.
    The luck of Caesar, which the gods give men
  MESSENGER. Good madam, hear me.
    Were busied with a Whitsun morris-dance;
    And bid the main flood bate his usual height;  
    An army of good words; and I do know
    And all your northern castles yielded up,
    Base and illustrious as the smoky light
    farewell.
    Take up the sword again, or take up me.
    And give assurance to Baptista Minola
    Do you the office, friar; which consummate,

    If Salisbury be lost.
        Enter the KING, reading of a schedule, and LOVELL
    Are pick-purses in love, and we deserve to die.
  TROILUS. To make a recordation to my soul
    And on the cause and question now in hand
    And thou possessed with a thousand wrongs;
    That thinks with oaths to face the matter out.
  FALSTAFF. Farewell, farewell.
  Feeding on that which doth preserve the ill,
    The keys of all the posterns. Please your Highness
    And let him learn to know, when maidens sue,
Enter Lady Macbeth, reading a letter.
    At a superfluous rate!
    Is prisoner to your son. O, such a day,
    Upon the Thracian tyrant in his tent
  KING. Thou speakest wonders.
    And she is fair and, fairer than that word,
    parts with Beatrice, and then the two bears will not bite one
    Richmond;
  To her will we to dinner.  [To ANGELO]  Get you home
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  IAGO. And, I'll warrant her, full of game.
    And if his name be George, I'll call him Peter;
    And pardon on lily true submission.
  FIRST MURDERER. Where's thy conscience now?
    Mother, I am going to the market-place;
    The purple testament of bleeding war;
    Do you see, gentlemen? Nay, guiltiness will speak,
    In Richard's time- what do you call the place-
    For things that are not to be remedied.
    coward to allay the gust he hath in quarrelling, 'tis thought
    A vapour sometime like a bear or lion,
    Nor never seek prevention of thy foes.
    Go to, then; you come to me, and you say
    Lives in the English court and is received
  Rey. Ay, very well, my lord.  
    I'll once more feast the rascals.
     Nor more nor clipp'd, but so.
  CHIRON. An 'twere my cause, I should go hang myself.

    Begin your suits anew, and sue to him.
    By which he did ascend. So Caesar may;
  Hath he not reason to turn back an hour in a day?
    our virtues.
    Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
    Wounds will I lend the French instead of eyes,
  SHALLOW. Certain, 'tis certain; very sure, very sure. Death, as the
    To curse the fair proceedings of this day.
    O, coward that I am, to live so long,
    Why didst thou send me forth, brave Cassius?
    To be depos'd, and shortly murdered.
    I said, an elder soldier, not a better.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  SHYLOCK. On what compulsion must I? Tell me that.  
    thy flatterers?
Blackheath
     We have this hour a constant will to publish
    Where now remains a sweet reversion.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    As a man sorely tainted, to his answer,
ACT V. SCENE 1.

    Try what repentance can. What can it not?
    From jealousy!
    Raze out the written troubles of the brain,
    And fan our people cold.
  AUTOLYCUS. If that shepherd be not in hand-fast, let him fly; the
    This pretty brabble will undo us all.
  WOLSEY. Why, well;
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH, DUCHESS of YORK, and MARQUIS of DORSET, at one door;
    But give thyself unto my sick desires,
    Then, in a friend, it is cold modesty.
London. The palace
    But that stiff use of grief makes wild grief tame,
    The ladies, her attendants of her chamber,

    Shines o'er with civil swords: Sextus Pompeius
   hold th' opinion of Pythagoras ere I will allow of thy wits; and
  GOBBO. He hath a great infection, sir, as one would say, to serve-

    That fools should be so deep contemplative;
    your own gracious person; and much please the absent Duke, if
  FABIAN. Did not I say he would work it out?
  HELENA. How happy some o'er other some can be!  
  ARMADO. I am all these three.  
    As if we had them not. Spirits are not finely touch'd
    Whose passions and whose plots have broke their sleep
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. If it be, sir, I pray you eat none of it.
    O'er sixteen years, and leave the growth untried
    In common sense, sense saves another way.
                      Enter Benvolio.
  I'll utter what my sorrow gives me leave.
  FLAVIUS. No, my most worthy master, in whose breast
    And leave not one alive, I live in hell.  
SCENE II.
  TIMON. What, are my doors oppos'd against my passage?
    I will encounter with Andronicus,

    That, when he plays at tables, chides the dice
  QUEEN. And take my heart with thee.           [She kisses him]
    Deliver all with charity.

  LAFEU. Yes, good faith, ev'ry dram of it; and I will not bate thee
    The time is worth the use on't.  
    That we may hew his limbs, and on a pile
    Better once than never, for never too late.           Exeunt
    And touch'd with choler, hot as gunpowder,
    After he scores, he never pays the score.
    That whoso draws a sword 'tis present death,
Enter Hamlet.
    And Paris too. Come, I'll dispose of thee
  AGRIPPA. A rarer spirit never
    still say I.
    And that my fortune runs against the bias.
    Bestow it at your pleasure; and believe
  'Tis not enough that through the cloud thou break,
    O thou fond many, with what loud applause
    In titles, honours, and promotions,
    O, let me 'bate!- but not like me, yet long'st,
    Are of a mind: he, that they cannot help him;
  NORFOLK. An men's!
    'Tis but a man gone. Forth, my sword; he dies.
    Hast thou no letters to me from the friar?
  Fool. Why, after I have cut the egg i' th' middle and eat up the
  Gregory, servant to Capulet.
    And all the trouble thou hast turn'd me to?
    thee, lady!
    You and Fidele play the cooks; I'll stay  
  LAFEU. They are not sallet-herbs, you knave; they are nose-herbs.
  GLOUCESTER. [Aside to CARDINAL] Cardinal, I am with you.  
  VIOLA. Most sweet lady-
  ANTONIO, father to Proteus
    stroke
    Steep'd in the colors of their trade, their daggers
    Under some biting error.  
    As far as land will let me by your side.
    Should not expel these inconveniences
  PAGE. Come on, sir.
    Sweet blowse, you are a beauteous blossom sure.

                     92
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  Thy proud heart's slave and vassal wretch to be:
  ABHORSON. Sir, it is a mystery.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  HOLOFERNES. Mehercle, if their sons be ingenious, they shall want
    I idly heard-if true or false I know not.
    Upon so soft a subject as myself!
ACT V. SCENE 6.
  LARTIUS. O, 'tis Marcius!  
    Hath by instinct knowledge from others' eyes
  
      In general synod take away her power;
    For new-made honour doth forget men's names:
    From your kind aunt, Duchess of Burgundy,

    Let's write 'good angel' on the devil's horn;
  SUFFOLK. I go.
  LUCETTA. Ay, madam, you may say what sights you see;
    hereafter. But shall we have this dialogue between the Fool and

  SLENDER. I'll rather be unmannerly than troublesome. You
  AUMERLE. Stay thy revengeful hand; thou hast no cause to fear.
    An Antony were nature's piece 'gainst fancy,
                Alexandria. The monument
  Bene. Suffer love!--a good epithet. I do suffer love indeed, for I
  Edg. This would have seem'd a period
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. You saw
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    politic? am I subtle? am I a Machiavel? Shall I lose my
    I have taken note of it, the age is grown so picked that the toe  
    The kindred of him hath been flesh'd upon us;
Another part of the forest

  FIRST WARDER.  [Within]  The Lord protect him! so we
  Then bettered that the world may see my pleasure,
    Thou call'dst me dog before thou hadst a cause,
  CORIOLANUS. No, sir, 'twas never my desire yet to trouble the poor
  DEMETRIUS. No wonder, my lord: one lion may, when many asses do.
    young men must live. You are grandjurors, are ye? We'll jure ye,
  BUCKINGHAM. Why should he then protect our sovereign,
    Call me but love, and I'll be new baptiz'd;
    An esperance so obstinately strong,
    Deny your love, so rich within his soul,
  Laer. It well appears. But tell me
    But why unkindly didst thou leave me so?
    Of every realm, that did debate this business,
    my bosom is full of kindness, and I am yet so near the manners of
  PANDARUS. Here's a letter come from yond poor girl.
  RICHARD. Whose soul is that which takes her heavy leave?
ANGELO. I am sorry, sir, that I have hind'red you;
    willingly part withal- except my life, except my life, except my
    Sorry I am to hear what I have heard.
    I' th' boldness of your speech.
    So wish I, I might thrust thy soul to hell.
    Poor queen and son, your labour is but lost;
    Well, gaoler, on; pray God Bassanio come
  THERSITES. Has not so much wit-
    Content thyself awhile. By the mass, 'tis morning;
    A goodly humour, is it not, my lords?
    Be she as foul as was Florentius' love,
  MARCUS. This will I do, and soon return again.            Exit
  IAGO.                             Speak within door.
    Now the witch take me if I meant it thus!


    Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes,
  ANTONIO. Which, of he or Adrian, for a good wager, first
  KING JOHN. Now keep your holy word; go meet the French;
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    coffer, chest, trunk, well, vault, but he hath an abstract for
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  LUCIUS. Who, the Lord Timon? He is my very good friend, and an
  AGUECHEEK. I have no exquisite reason for't, but I have reason good
    Here comes your father. Never make denial;
  GAUNT. O, Spare me not, my brother Edward's son,
    an egg is full of meat; and yet thy head hath been beaten as
    I'll draw the form and model of our battle,
    Ah, sancta majestas! who would not buy thee dear?
  IAGO.                          Villainous whore!
  LEWIS. Why, say, fair Queen, whence springs this deep despair?
    Duchess and the ladies, that they would shriek; and that were
  To counterfeit thus grossly with your slave,
    That is not quickly buzz'd into his ears?
    As mountain winds; but then exactly do
    Belike you mean to make a puppet of me.  
    the next turning of all, on your left; marry, at the very next  
    For with the dark, poor thief, I'll steal away.         Exit
    With what a sorrow Cromwell leaves his lord.
    she loves.

  ANTONY. No more light answers. Let our officers
  Alb. Shut your mouth, dame,
    I shall beseech him to befriend himself.
    If the King come, I shall incur I know not
    Then let her beauty be her wedding-dow'r;
    That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
    After a well-grac'd actor leaves the stage
    You, like a lecher, out of whorish loins


    Yet extreme gusts will blow out fire and all.
  PANDARUS. That's true; make no question of that. 'Two and fifty
    For making him egregiously an ass
    Like labour with the rest; where th' other instruments
  BUCKINGHAM. Even that, I hope, which pleaseth God above,
    Bond slaves and pagans shall our statesmen be.            Exeunt.

    Which you, mistaking, offer up to joy.
    Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home
    Till Bolingbroke have pardon'd thee. Away, be gone.
  1. Mus. Then will I give you the serving-creature.
  WILLIAMS. I know this; and thus I challenge it.  [Strikes him]
    Not seldom, nor no slight checks, when I have
    The which he promised. Do but encave yourself
    The quiet of my wounded conscience,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    She is a woman, therefore may be won;
LUCIANA. That love I begg'd for you he begg'd of me.
  CORIOLANUS. Know, good mother,
      But fill unshaken when they mellow be.
    Perhaps she cull'd it from among the rest.
    And swear unto my soul to right your wrongs.
    O, were mine eye-bans into bullets turn'd,
  FLUTE. Must I speak now?  
  AJAX. Well, go to, go to.
    Hark, Ventidius.
    What might we do to make the girl forget
    I now go toward him; therefore, follow me,

    To be or none or little, though a devil
    Pinch him for his villainy;
    And all great fears, which now import their dangers,
    Excepting none but good Duke Humphrey.
    Where is she gone? Haply despair hath seiz'd her;  
    Be great in act, as you have been in thought;
    And the right valiant Banquo walk'd too late,
    Since I came to this isle. And in the morn

     O Regan, wilt thou take her by the hand?

  Or as the wardrobe which the robe doth hide,
    Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.  
    I am yet come to town. There's for your silence.

    In poison there is physic; and these news,
    And noble offices thou mayst effect
    so, Master Page? He hath wrong'd me; indeed he hath; at a
  STEPHANO. My man-monster hath drown'd his tongue in
    That would not be a queen, that would she not,
  PETRUCHIO. Why, how now, Kate, I hope thou art not mad!
    Dale,a most furious knight and valorous enemy. But what of that?
    For they have pardons, being ask'd, as free
  OTHELLO. Indeed? ay, indeed. Discern'st thou aught in that?
              Enter Banquo, and Fleance with a torch.
    and command you, in his Highness' name, to repair to
  Against my soul's pure truth why labour you
ANGELO'S house
    Awake.
  STARVELING, a tailor
  FORD. When I have told you that, I have told you all. Some

    Give me the boy. I am glad you did not nurse him;
  Or at your hand th' account of hours to crave,
    I should love thee but as a property.

    Most like a soldier, ordered honorably.
  FRIAR. Gladly, my lord.
    By showing the worst first. Do not consent
    Haply some poison yet doth hang on them
  FALSTAFF. I know not how they sold themselves; but thou, like a
    If we be conquered, let men conquer us,
    Where, ere we do repose us, we will write
  1. Play. 'Anon he finds him,
  CAESAR. What, Brutus?
    To whose flint bosom my condemned lord
    And presently prefer his suit to Caesar.

    If you deny me, fie upon your law!
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  CASSIUS. Hath Cassius lived
    'Shylock, we would have moneys.' You say so-
  Lords, Ladies, and Attendants; Petitioners, Aldermen, a Herald,

  It would make a man mad as a buck to be so bought and sold.
    Saying he'll lade it dry to have his way-
  Nurse. Peter!
    the son of the King nearest his father, Harry Prince of Wales,
    there is not a more fearful wild-fowl than your lion living; and
    Of this dead butcher and his fiend-like queen,
  CRESSIDA. And I'll spring up in his tears, an 'twere a nettle
    Near to her close and consecrated bower,
    He shall live a man forbid.
  Gent. Sir, speed you. What's your will?
    You'll find it wholesome. Lo, where comes that rock
    Make mountains level, and the continent,
    Pray for me! I must now forsake ye; the last hour
    Eros!- I come, my queen.- Eros!- Stay for me;
    Our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change;
    But I will prove that two on's are as good
  Rom. Th' exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
Enter COUNTESS and CLOWN
  If Nature (sovereign mistress over wrack)
  TROILUS. Wert thou the devil and wor'st it on thy horn,
    free love, hath presented to you four milk-white horses, trapp'd
    The noisome weeds which without profit suck
    without the help of admiration, though the catalogue of his
    Yet let her be a principality,
                Enter NORTHUMBERLAND


    Of here and everywhere. Straight satisfy yourself:
    At the discovery of most dangerous treason
  Laer. Upon my life, Lamound.
    Henceforward do your messages yourself.
  BOLINGBROKE. Of much less value is my company
    no stronger than a nutshell, and as leaky as an unstanched
    warrant him heart-whole.
    With Eleanor for telling but her dream?
  PISANIO. There might have been,
    Dispatch it presently; the hour draws on
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    I got them in my country's service, when
    your Highness pardon me.
    Never to taste the pleasures of the world,
  PAGE. None, my lord, but old Mistress Quickly and Mistress Doll
    And since you call'd me master for so long,
      l'envoy.

      Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
    You have undone a man of fourscore-three
    Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
    Seems to cast water on the burning bear,
  SALISBURY. My lord, break we off; we know your mind at full.
  ANTONY. When did she send thee?  
A heath.
  WESTMORELAND. That argues but the shame of your offence:

    To watch the fearful bending of thy knee,
    mouth; nay, as the pudding to his skin.
  Pedro. She were an excellent wife for Benedick.
  LORD. Good my liege,
                          Enter Gloucester.
  QUEEN. O, content thee.
    Pays homage to us,- thou mayst not coldly set
  Reg. To whose hands have you sent the lunatic King?
    Welcome before the gates of Angiers, Duke.
Rome. A street
  KING HENRY. Well-minded Clarence, be thou fortunate!
    My gentle Puck, come hither. Thou rememb'rest
    Bardolph, be blithe; Nym, rouse thy vaunting veins;
  BASTARD. Of no more force to dispossess me, sir,
    Hath thwarted our intents. Come, come away.
    The gay new coats o'er the French soldiers' heads
    To punish me with this, and this with me,
  Claud. Never any did so, though very many have been beside their
  LOVELL. Sir?
    The strangeness of his alter'd countenance?
  Edm. Yes, madam, he was of that consort.
Without the walls of Florence
    A brave defiance in King Henry's teeth,
     of nature; there's father against child. We have seen the best
              And I serve the Fairy Queen,
    I pray you, school yourself. But for your husband,
    Kate of Kate Hall, my super-dainty Kate,
    And stole into the covert of the wood.
    But that defences, musters, preparations,
  Weighs not the dust and injury of age,
    But only Sycorax my dam and she;
    Very obedient. Proceed you in your tears.
                          Enter a HERALD  
    If Caesar hide himself, shall they not whisper
    O, come to me!
                                          Exeunt WOLSEY and his train
    O, pity, God, this miserable age!
    To beg relief among Rome's enemies;
     And make them keep their caves. Since I was man,
    On yon young boy. I'll tell thee what, my friend,
  TALBOT. Shall all thy mother's hopes lie in one tomb?
    If Caesar carelessly but nod on him.
    Preservers of my throne. Woe is my heart
    a world ransom'd, or one destroyed. A notable passion of wonder
    Even pushes 'gainst our heart- the party tried,
  TUTOR. Ah, Clifford, murder not this innocent child,
ADRIANA.  [Within]  Who is that at the door, that keeps all this noise?
THE END
Alarums to the fight, wherein both the STAFFORDS are slain.
  DEMETRIUS. So should the murdered look; and so should I,


  Then, gentle brother, get you in again;
    A cell of ignorance, travelling abed,

    The devil to his fellow, and delight
    My presence, like a robe pontifical,  
    'Tis like she comes to speak of Cassio's death.
    There is a Frenchman his companion, one
    The rack dislimns, and makes it indistinct,
    Which makes it five and twenty. Still in motion
    Like urchins, ouphes, and fairies, green and white,
    That wound, beyond their feeling, to the quick.
   Never came reformation in a flood,
    By all conjectures: first, Kildare's attainder,
  From whence, I think, you are come by miracle.
    And many an old man's sigh, and many a widow's,
    This hateful imperfection of her eyes.
    Be poisonous too, and kill thy forlorn Queen.
  MRS. PAGE. Give your men the charge; we must be brief.
    It was against your Highness; whereat griev'd,
    May all to Athens back again repair,
Padua. BAPTISTA'S house

     Tell me- but truly- but then speak the truth-
  HOLOFERNES. Novi hominem tanquam te. His humour is lofty, his
Enter POSTHUMUS and a Britain LORD
  FASTOLFE. Whither away? To save myself by flight:
    And she, mistaken, seems to dote on me.
                                                         Exeunt.
    But what was true, and very full of proof.  

  LUCIO. Lechery?
    where would you choose it?
    Both tugging to be victors, breast to breast,
  SHYLOCK. Hates any man the thing he would not kill?
    From the best-temper'd courage in his troops;
    I'll set thee free for this.  [To FERDINAND]  A word, good
                   Exit, PAROLLES guarded. A short alarum within
    And we, in pity of the gentle King,
    The sternness of his presence?
  Apoth. Who calls so loud?
    The common voice, I see, is verified
    Did claim some certain dukedoms in the right
  Worthily term'd them merciless to us!
    And, will they take the offer of our grace,
    Or if not so, then here I hit it right-
    So smooth he daub'd his vice with show of virtue  
    yourself young? Fie, fie, fie, Sir John!
    Will not permit mine eyes once to behold
    Heaven knows, not I;
    Valance of Venice gold in needle-work;
  Cap. And too soon marr'd are those so early made.
  WIDOW. Ay, marry, is't. Hark you! They come this way.
    Give him the ring, and bring him, if thou canst,
    Ere thou relieve the beggar. Give to dogs
  CASSIUS. To what effect?
                     82
    Play on the lute, beholding the towns burn.
  Whilst her neglected child holds her in chase,
    [To DIANA]  If thou beest yet a fresh uncropped flower,
  CATESBY. I will my lord, with all convenient haste.  
Enter Fortinbras with his Army over the stage.
    Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    'Tis policy and stratagem must do
    Sail like my pinnace to these golden shores.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Thanks, gentle Somerset; sweet Oxford, thanks.
  LUCIO. [To ISABELLA] You are too cold.
    That as his worthy deeds did claim no less
     Looks fearfully in the confined deep.
  QUICKLY. Hark ye, Master Slender would speak a word

    What, shall we be merry? Shall we have a play extempore?  
    Were better than a churlish turf of France.
    to bar your offence herein too, I durst attempt it against any
OFFICERS, and attendants
    When you curse them as enemies.
  CLOWN. Master Malvolio?
    If honour may be shrouded in a hearse;
  Jul. Now, good sweet nurse- O Lord, why look'st thou sad?
    My lord and sovereign, and thy vowed friend,  
  Hero. Is my lord well that he doth speak so wide?
  CLEOPATRA. Ah, stand by!
  MALCOLM. Be comforted.
  CASSIUS. Stand fast, Titinius; we must out and talk.
    Would not the beggar then forget himself?
  RODERIGO. I do not find that thou dealest justly with me.
    Hath op'd his ponderous and marble jaws
    to a second day of audience. When you are hearing a matter
    A crown for York!-and, lords, bow low to him.
  OLIVIA. What would my lord, but that he may not have,
              Good Duke, receive thy daughter;
    I humbly set it at your will; but for my mistress,

    We two in great amazedness will fly.
    a thousand marks, let him lend me the money, and have at him. For
  Hot. Where?

    Nor thrust your head into the public street
    Not to come near our person by ten mile.
    Help, three o' th' chiefest soldiers; I'll be one.
    Rather than want a spirit; appear, and pertly.


    obedience to the King wipes the crime of it out of us.
    Nor by a hired knife; but that self hand
    Which mates him first that first intends deceit.
    Sweet are the uses of adversity,
    But let concealment, like a worm i' th' bud,


    That comes in triumph over Pompey's blood?
1606

  CLARENCE. By heaven, I think there is no man is secure
     On her kind nursery.- Hence and avoid my sight!-
    Sextus Pompeius spoil'd, we had not rated him
           Ducdame, ducdame, ducdame;
  ANNE. Will't please your worship to come in, sir?
  AGAMEMNON. Most dearly welcome to the Greeks, sweet lady.
  Where thou art forced to break a twofold truth:
  CROMWELL. Please your honours,
  ANTONY. When it appears to you where this begins,
  CHRISTOPHER. Sir Walter Herbert, a renowned soldier;
    And yet are steep'd in favours; so am I,
  CLOTEN. All-worthy villain!
  CASCA. Are not you moved, when all the sway of earth
  COSTARD. I do confess much of the hearing it, but little of the
    peradventure he shall ever return to have hearing of this
SCENE III.
  OLIVIA. O, do not swear!
    And we shall have more wars befor't be long.
                          Enter HELENA
                                               [Stabs BASSIANUS]
     If you do find him, pray you give him this;  
    Richard loves Richard; that is, I am I.
    gentleman; tricks he hath had in him, which gentlemen have.
  PAGE. Ay, and the time seems thirty unto me,
  SICINIUS. Draw near, ye people.
    And gentle, kind, effeminate remorse,

  KING. Madam, I will, if suddenly I may.

    Why, Via! to London will we march amain,

  Glou. Sirrah naked fellow-
  SIR TOBY. O knight, thou lack'st a cup of canary! When did I see
    Ne'er spurr'd their coursers at the trumpet's sound;
    Dies in his own too-much. That we would do,
    Nature hath meal and bran, contempt and grace.
  BURGUNDY. What Lord Talbot pleaseth Burgundy.
  PATROCLUS. Male varlet, you rogue! What's that?

  
    wishes.' Her very phrases! By your leave, wax. Soft! And the
    Beholding him, plucks comfort from his looks;
  Where gold; and no man that hath a name
    Prosperity's the very bond of love,
    For I will buzz abroad such prophecies
    With most delicious poison. Think on me,
    It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
    Of bold-fac'd victory. Then leaden age,
    Which time shall bring to ripeness. She shall be-
    Will he conduct you through the heart of France,  
  KING PHILIP. As many and as well-born bloods as those-
    for I look through thee. Give me thy hand.
    Here comes a spirit of his, and to torment me
  BEROWNE. And I, forsooth, in love; I, that have been love's whip;
    Not to woo honour, but to wed it; when
    Alas, poor lady, desolate and left!
  BERTRAM. Thank your Majesty.                 Exeunt [Flourish]
  hath more hair than wit.
SCENE III.

    article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make
  DUCHESS. I do not sue to stand;
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Saint Dennis to Saint Cupid! What are they
    We will not from the helm to sit and weep,
    It would have madded me; what shall I do  
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Your reason?
  Kent. To go out of my dialect, which you discommend so much. I
    Tell you I do not nor I cannot love you?
    give thee thy due, and one that knows what belongs to reason, and

Exit.
    Away, my masters! trouble us no more;
  CASSIUS. Decius, well urged. I think it is not meet
  Gon. Welcome, my lord. I marvel our mild husband
    There's more behind that is more gratulate.
  Jul. How now? Who calls?
    Will bear up with this exercise, so long
  DUKE OF MILAN, father to Silvia
  MOTHER.   With marriage wherefore was he mock'd,
  Hath been before, how are our brains beguiled,
    again as it is, and thou shalt have a licence to kill for a
  PINDARUS. [Above.] O my lord!
    That Slender, though well landed, is an idiot;
  LUCIUS. Uncle Marcus, since 'tis my father's mind
    My countryman- a Roman by a Roman
                                       [They walk and speak not]  

  RAMBURES. What, will you have them weep our horses' blood?
    dark, Hal, that thou couldst not see thy hand.
    Thou art not here. Murder is thy alms-deed;
    Tell me for truth the measure of his love
    And thus hath so bestirr'd thee in thy sleep,
    The effect and it! Come to my woman's breasts,
  PISTOL. 'Convey' the wise it call. 'Steal' foh! A fico for the
    That you depart and lay no hands on me.
                                                          Exeunt
    If there be any cunning cruelty
    'Jesu preserve thee! Welcome, Bolingbroke!'
    Wherein this trunk was fram'd, and in her hand
    No sooner was I crept out of my cradle

    To-day in our young lords; but they may jest
  ENOBARBUS. Hush! Here comes Antony.
    To make divorce of their incorporate league;
    For he will never follow anything
    As salt as wolves in pride, and fools as gross
  ELBOW. Seven year and a half, sir.
    To win the Moor, were't to renounce his baptism,
  LAFEU. Nay, I'll fit you,
    The King cried 'Ha!' at this.
    Some thousand verses of a faithful lover;
    A thousand moral paintings I can show
    My lords, a solemn hunting is in hand;
                                                       Polonius.
    Under their blessed wings!
    Command the health of it? No, thou proud dream,
    wars, upon my particular knowledge of his directions. By Cheshu,
    Why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth,
    Do as I bid thee. There's no more to say;
    stol'n from my host at Saint Alban's, or the red-nose innkeeper
  Laund'ring the silken figures in the brine
     That names me traitor, villain-like he lies.
    For that I heard the clink and fall of swords,
  Of folded schedules had she many a one,

    With two pitch balls stuck in her face for eyes;
    Did I but speak thy deeds. What committed!
  ALARBUS
    Now join your hands, and with your hands your hearts,
  Leon. If you swear, my lord, you shall not be forsworn. [To Don
    think of thee at court.
    An't like your lordly Lord's Protectorship.
  WOLSEY. I do profess
    As a false favourite doth his prince's name,
    Is nothing left me but my body's length.
    Her brother, having both their country quitted
    Popilius Lena speaks not of our purposes;
    And replant Henry in his former state.
    With modesty admiring thy renown,
    The child-bed privilege denied, which 'longs
                                                         Exeunt.

    Mine interest and his honour; or have charg'd him,
    Do botch and bungle up damnation
  BEDFORD. Cease, cease these jars and rest your minds in peace;
    That makes the world full of ill-favour'd children.
  QUICKLY. That's my master, Master Doctor.
    If thou again say 'Yes.'
  AGUECHEEK. And your horse now would make him an ass.
  ACHILLES. I tell thee yea.
  O give thy self the thanks if aught in me,
    And am to Padua come as he that leaves
    From that particular fault. The dram of e'il
    To whom came he?- to the beggar. What saw he?- the beggar. Who
    It is our pleasure one of them depart;
                       Re-enter WESTMORELAND
    little advantage. If he be not born to be hang'd, our
  FALSTAFF. I hope, my lord, all's well. What is the news, my lord?
  MACBETH. Of all men else I have avoided thee.
  Pedro. But did my brother set thee on to this?
                      Enter LYSANDER
    Now bring them in, for I will play the cook,
    That part of tyranny that I do bear
A street
  ROSALINE. But that you take what doth to you belong,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
     Which the impetuous blasts, with eyeless rage,
    To give them seals never, my soul, consent!             Exit.
    Of her I am to speak.
    And laugh this sport o'er by a country fire;
  I long that we were safe and sound aboard.
  TITUS. The hunt is up, the morn is bright and grey,

    I'll manacle thy neck and feet together.
    Makes me forgetful?
    Or else you like not of my company.  
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Where never Roman shall take note of him.              Exit.  
    work.
  ANTONY. Tend me to-night;
    Only compound me with forgotten dust;
  When I against my self with thee partake?
    Do as I bid you, shut doors after you.
  JULIET. I do confess it, and repent it, father.
    Therefore stand up; and for these good deserts
    I tender 't here; I do as truly suffer
  THIRD CITIZEN. He says, for Brutus' sake,
  
  KING HENRY. I was not angry since I came to France
    I live with bread like you, feel want,
    That souls of animals infuse themselves

    I will not meet with you to-morrow night.
    His favour with the radiant Cymbeline,
    Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE

  And hang more praise upon deceased I,

  ALL LORDS. O, none so welcome!
  ISABELLA. O Prince! I conjure thee, as thou believ'st  
    And sleep, that sometimes shuts up sorrow's eye,
Venice. A street
  MARIA. The devil a Puritan that he is, or anything constantly but a
    liberality, and such like, the spice and salt that season a man?
  SHEPHERD. So 'tis said, sir- about his son, that should have
  CAESAR. Contemning Rome, he has done all this and more

  ORLANDO. I would not have my right Rosalind of this mind; for, I

    The slave's report is seconded, and more,
    You yours, Orlando, to receive his daughter;
  CORIN. I partly guess; for I have lov'd ere now.
    Tell her I hold as giddily as Fortune;  
    Hath not our brother made a worthy choice?
    Hath much deformed us, fashioning our humours
  CARDINAL. I thought as much; he would be above the clouds.

  AUSTRIA. The peace of heaven is theirs that lift their swords  
  BRUTUS. Well, to our work alive. What do you think
  Ber. It would be spoke to.
Enter MARIA and CLOWN
        March. Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD, GLOUCESTER,
  IAGO.        O, beware, my lord, of jealousy!
  Mother. O me, O me! My child, my only life!
    Thy lips are warm!
    O, thou shalt find-
    Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough
    And falsehood cures, as fire cools fire
    And talk to you sometimes? Dwell I but in the suburbs
    And we'll consign thereto. Will you, fair sister,

  DESDEMONA. I know't: I thank you. You do love my lord:
             Re-enter IRAS, with a robe, crown, &c.  
  ALL.  [Kneeling]  No man shed tears for noble Mutius;
    Thus in a chapel lying! Come off, come off;  
  PETRUCHIO. Why came I hither but to that intent?
  WOLSEY. Y'are welcome, my fair guests. That noble lady  
    Ah, gentle villain, do not turn away!
    have brought her into such a canaries as 'tis wonderful.
    Let me be blest to make this happy close;
ACT IV. PROLOGUE.
    Such eyes the widows in Corioli wear,
    Temp'ring extremities with extreme sweet.
    Religious in mine error, I adore  
    Do not omit the heavy offer of it:
    Will change to virtue and to worthiness.
    Hector.
    My love and her desert; that canst not dream
    That will confess perfection so could err
  Lear. Meantime we shall express our darker purpose.
  DUCHESS. Finds brotherhood in thee no sharper spur?

  ANGELO. What, resists he? Help him, Lucio.
  LUCETTA. Please you, repeat their names; I'll show my mind
    Mine own escape unfoldeth to my hope,
  CORIOLANUS. No more of this, it does offend my heart.
    At Gratiano's lodging some hour hence.
           Enter, several ways, BASTARD, ALENCON, REIGNIER,
    And spare no blood beside.
    her before your eyes to-morrow, human as she is, and without any
    be true that good wine needs no bush, 'tis true that a good play
    Rather than envy you.
    Love thee as our commander and our king.
    i' th' university, you say?
    And bears down all before him.
    To leave poor me, thou hast the strength of laws,
    And who abstains from meat that is not gaunt?
  BRABANTIO. What, have you lost your wits?
  Your mistress sent to have me home to dinner!
  FRANCIS. What the devil hast thou brought there-apple-johns? Thou
  ROSALIND. No, some of it is for my child's father. O, how full of
  Queen. For love of God, forbear him!
    I'll go to him and undertake to bring him  
  TALBOT. No, no, I am but shadow of myself.
  LADY MACDUFF. Wisdom? To leave his wife, to leave his babes,
    The air is delicate.
    Not knowing how to find the open air,
       Enter to the PROTECTOR at the Tower gates WINCHESTER
    ways and play; go.
    Our stern alarums chang'd to merry meetings,

    Sith 'twas my fault to give the people scope,

  PROTEUS. Not so, sweet lady; but too mean a servant
    To fool their preparation and to conquer
  LAFEU. I will buy me a son-in-law in a fair, and toll for this.
    To thrust the lie unto him.
  SHYLOCK. Ay, his breast-
    Take with you your companions; as you look
  AGUECHEEK. By my troth, I would not undertake her in this company.
  VINCENTIO. Is't so, indeed?               [He beats BIONDELLO]
    Pardon, and terms of love to all of you?
    and Claudio mightily abus'd, and Don John is the author of all,
  GOWER. No; fifteen hundred foot, five hundred horse,
    But with a little act upon the blood
    in. Laura, to his lady, was but a kitchen wench (marry, she had a
  Shall Time's best jewel from Time's chest lie hid?
    Which is the bell. So sighs, and tears, and groans,
    And then I'll come and be thy waggoner
    his rites.
  Fal. Dowlas, filthy dowlas! I have given them away to bakers'
    Thy soldier, servant, making peace or war
  MALCOLM. We shall not spend a large expense of time
    say, 'Any pains that I take for you is as easy as thanks.' If I
    If the ill spirit have so fair a house,
    worst; and thou shalt wear me, if thou wear me, better and
    What you bestow, in him I'll counterpoise,
    Out of self-bounty be abused. Look to't.
    Come, come.
    'Tis in few words, but spacious in effect:
    That e'er I prov'd thee false or fear'd thy faith.

  TROILUS. I prithee now, to bed.
    I can with ease translate it to my will;
  HOLOFERNES. Most military sir, salutation.
    Showing an outward pity-yet you Pilates
    For it engenders choler, planteth anger;
    cannot with such magnificence, in so rare- I know not what to
  Upon what bargain do you give it me?
  SOOTHSAYER. In nature's infinite book of secrecy
  Con. I am a gentleman, sir, and my name is Conrade.

  Of such enchanting presence and discourse,
    It hath struck ten o'clock.
  FALSTAFF. I would it were otherwise; I would my means were greater
    Save thou the child, so we may all be safe.

    ruled by your well-willers. I will peat the door for Master
                   Enter ORLANDO and JAQUES  
    O'er the vast world to seek a single man,
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. 'Tis the Cardinal;
    Sworn to tis in your younger enterprise.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Sir,
  JOHN. The sword of Orleans hath not made me smart;
  PUCELLE. The Regent conquers and the Frenchmen fly.
  MRS. PAGE. Come, to the forge with it then; shape it. I
    Deliver'd to us; and for him forthwith,
    Wart's hand, Bardolph.
  Of others' voices, that my adder's sense,
    thou wouldst discover if thou couldst, let him continue in his

    Who, sitting in the stocks, refuge their shame,
Flourish. Enter KING, COUNTESS, LAFEU, the two FRENCH LORDS, with ATTENDANTS
  HERMIA. Be it so, Lysander: find you out a bed,

    And yet go current from suspicion!
ANGELO. You are a merry man, sir; fare you well.
    And dangers are to me indifferent.
    Make space enough between you.
    A very fresh-fish here-fie, fie, fie upon
    To prey at fortune. Haply, for I am black  
  Rom. Alive in triumph, and Mercutio slain?
    And seal'd between us.  
    you have push'd out your gates the very defender of them, and in
    My dukedom to a beggarly denier,
    nor I him: he hath neither Latin, French, nor Italian, and you  
    To have it added to the faults of mine,
    Then do thy office Muse, I teach thee how,

    A million fail, confounding oath on oath.

  SECOND LORD. The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and ill
    To kill the King at Oxford.  
  ISABELLA. Woe me! For what?
    That you shall say my cunning drift excels.

                      Enter CAIUS MARCIUS
  MRS. PAGE. Faith, but you do, in my mind.
          And keep in-a-door,
  JULIA. Where is Launce?
  Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination.

SCENE V.
    Patient Octavia plough thy visage up
    The gifts she looks from me are pack'd and lock'd

    And, like a dew-drop from the lion's mane,
    play wants. I pray you, fail me not.
    Invited by your noble self, hath sent
  BIONDELLO. Nay, by Saint Jamy,
  When in the chronicle of wasted time,
    Signior Lucentio that his father is come from Pisa, and is here
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  MESSENGER. The Duke of Norfolk sends you word by me
Scene II.
    As one that surfeits thinking on a want.
  PAGE. So think I too.
     Bore the commission of my place and person,
    Our praises are our wages; you may ride's
  DIOMEDES. I do not like this fooling.
    She's so conjunctive to my life and soul

    Over the glittering helmet of my foe!
    But I will rule both her, the King, and realm.          Exit
    Witness this army of such mass and charge,
    And give me swift transportance to these fields
    And said 'Dear Brother, live, and be a king'?
    And bring you back, charming the narrow seas  
    O fie, fie, fie!
                     132
    That with his sons, a terror to our foes,
  SIR JOHN FALSTAFF
  ULYSSES. There is no tarrying here; the hart Achilles
    This packet, please it you, contains at large.
    Cannot your grace win her to fancy him?
    And Romeo dead; and Juliet, dead before,
    A glorious angel. Then, if angels fight,
  Edg. [aside] I would not take this from report. It is,
    King,
  CHILDREN. What stay had we but Clarence? and he's gone.
  BOYET. And wherefore not ships?
    For many of our princes- woe the while!-
    Immaculate devotion, holy thoughts,
    That were enwombed mine. 'Tis often seen
    And by his side his fruit of bastardy.


  PANDARUS. That's Helenus. I marvel where Troilus is. That's
    Of hot and cold; he was nor sad nor merry.
    any man's, yet his leg excels all men's; and for a hand and a
    I will maintain it with some little cost.
    Sometime she gallops o'er a courtier's nose,
  CAESAR. Would he were fatter! But I fear him not,
    That men would tell their children, 'This is he!'
  CLOWN. In some sort, sir; but though my case be a pitiful one, I
  ARVIRAGUS. So. Begin.
  IACHIMO. Let me my service tender on your lips.
  CAMILLO. There is a sickness
    I would be trebled twenty times myself,
    Held up his left hand, which did flame and burn  
  POET. [Within.] Let me go in to see the generals.
    For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pin'd.
    him and make him fit to go. I cannot put him to a private
  MACBETH. Into the air, and what seem'd corporal melted
  SECOND WITCH. Upon the heath.
  LUCENTIO. A hundred then.
  STEPHANO. Is it so brave a lass?
    And rouse the Prince, and ring a hunter's peal,
          Sweet honey and sweet notes together fail.
    remain a beast with the beasts?  
    And be undone by 'em!                         Exit MESSENGER
  CURTIS. Who is that calls so coldly?
  FIRST MURDERER. Relent! No, 'tis cowardly and womanish.
    Well, would I were gently put out of office
    And that I'll write upon thy burgonet,
    I needs must rest me.
  Old Man. You cannot see your way.
  KING HENRY. Shall Kate be my wife?
    Thus do go about, about,
    This warlike volley.
    Nay, I have verses too, I thank Berowne;
  In personal duty, following where he haunted.
The highway near Gadshill.
  Pol. My lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
    That thus delays my promised supply
    bring it for food to thee. Thy conceit is nearer death than thy
  
    In war was never lion rag'd more fierce,


    manners; if thou never saw'st good manners, then thy manners must
  FALSTAFF. These fellows will do well. Master Shallow, God keep you!
  Then can I drown an eye (unused to flow)
    And live to be the show and gaze o' the time.
    When I did him at this advantage take,
    is to come halting off; you know, to come off the breach with his
  DUKE. 'Tis good; though music oft hath such a charm
  ALICE. Il est trop difficile, madame, comme je pense.
Scene III.
ADRIANA. I will attend my husband, be his nurse,
    A sister I bequeath you, whom no brother
    Thou hast been whipt for following him. Henceforth
    And make them know what 'tis to let a queen
    The King had cut off my head with my brother's.
    Conspir'd with that irregulous devil, Cloten,
    Give answer to this boy, and do it freely,
    In my whole course of wooing, thou criedst, "Indeed!"
    To go to Paris?
  Leon. O, by no means! She mocks all her wooers out of suit.
    imposition, depending on the caskets.
    Win you this city without stroke or wound;

  APEMANTUS. Thou hast cast away thyself, being like thyself;
                                                          Exeunt
    Where that and other specialties are bound;

    And lull'd with sound of sweetest melody?
    haunts thee in the likeness of an old fat man; a tun of man is
    was, and that the King was an usurper.
     harder. Chill be plain with you.
    I am to learn;
  EDWARD, my lord, thy son, our king, is dead.
  FLUELLEN. Kill the poys and the luggage! 'Tis expressly against the
    For bearers of this greeting to old Norway,  
    Alas, thou hast misconstrued everything!  
    Here on my knee I vow to God above
    My daughter shall be Henry's, if he please.

    duty pricks me on, have sent to thee, to receive the meed of
    I never in my life did look on him.
    Nor from the dust of old oblivion rak'd,
    As you were lesson'd- when he had no power

    And when came you to serve our Roman captive?
    Upon my target three fair shining suns.
    The jeweller that owes the ring is sent for,
    ass.

  ANGELO. [Aside] Amen; for I

    their bulwark, that have before gored the gentle bosom of peace
    This is the man, this is Antonio,
    And there I'll rest as, after much turmoil,  
  Crowning the present, doubting of the rest?
    When once she is my wife.
    To push against a kingdom, with his help
          Must make content with his fortunes fit,
  MELUN. Fly, noble English, you are bought and sold;
    But float upon a wild and violent sea
    bear with those that say you are reverend grave men, yet they lie
    The sweeter welcome, we will keep ourself
    For wearing our own noses.  
  ISABELLA. As much for my poor brother as myself;
    and briefly, wisely and truly: wisely I say, I am a bachelor.
    devils of hell be drawn in little, and Legion himself possess'd
  CLOWN. Why, masters, have your instruments been in Naples, that
    Rancour will out: proud prelate, in thy face
    Speak suddenly, my lords- are we all friends?

    Hast thou tapp'd out, and drunkenly carous'd.
  Why thou departed'st from thy native home,
  John. Going to find a barefoot brother out,
    Than if thou never hadst deserv'd our hate.
    This old moon wanes! She lingers my desires,
  FIRST WATCH. Do you hear how we are shent for keeping your
    For we are soft as our complexions are,
    crafty swearing rascals-that stale old mouse-eaten dry cheese,
  Are my discourses dull? Barren my wit?
    Which cannot go but thirty mile a day,
  THISBY. This is old Ninny's tomb. Where is my love?
    not then the better answer, You may say they are not the men you
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    So long as I am loyal, true, and crimeless.
  PAGE. His name, my lord, is Tyrrel.
    With which he yoketh your rebellious necks,
    beguil'd Master Slender of his chain cozen'd him of it.
    How to deny them, who t' advance, and who
      day.                             Exeunt PRINCESS and TRAIN
  Alb., Corn. Dear sir, forbear!
    Our great progenitors had conquered?
    To stop the foreign spirits, but they come
  Prince. Why, then I see
    To more approved service and desert.
  Muffle your false love with some show of blindness;
    Poor harmless fly,
    Say 'What is it your honour will command?'
    And send them thither. But at hand, at hand,
    By false intelligence or wrong surmise,
    these men's bills.
  Lear. He would not?
    By all your vows of love and that great vow
  ALEXANDER. As may be in the world, lady.
    To him that flourish'd for her with his sword.
    If quiet life be best; sweeter to you
    The blood of English shall manure the ground,
    He fires the proud tops of the eastern pines
    And three examples of the like hath been
  DESDEMONA. That death's unnatural that kills for loving.
    Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
    Here in the streets, desperate of shame and state,
    edict and continent canon; which, with, O, with- but with this I
    So, so.

    My master is awak'd by great occasion
  Laer. O, fear me not!
    Like one well studied in a sad ostent
  Leon. To-morrow then I will expect your coming;  
    And brought from thence the Thracian fatal steeds,
    And basely put it up without revenge?
    How dost thou like the Lord Bassanio's wife?
    But that I love the gentle Desdemona,
    In thy opinion which is worthiest love?
                  Another part of the plain
    [To the QUEEN] They were again together. You have done
    You taught me first to beg, and now, methinks,
  KING RICHARD. He does me double wrong
  FIRST MURTHERER. We are men, my liege.
  Bene. Your answer, sir, is enigmatical;
  Jul. My only love, sprung from my only hate!
                                              [They stand aside]
    Yet freshly pitied in our memories.
    comes here?
  Of this false jewel, and his amorous spoil.
    O, come, Ventidius,
    nimbly, with as quick dexterity, and roar'd for mercy, and still
  MACDUFF. I have no words.

    Ill-favouredly become the morning field;
    Skill infinite or monstrous desperate.
    They would not take her life. Is not this true?
    O'erborne their way, consum'd with fire and took
    To call me to your Senate, I'll deliver
    Degrees in schools, and brotherhoods in cities,
     To raise my fortunes. Thou old unhappy traitor,  
  HASTINGS. Woe, woe, for England! not a whit for me;
    His charters and his customary rights;
    Th' undoing of yourself. Let the world see
  PISANIO. One score 'twixt sun and sun,
    Now, when the lords and barons of the realm  

    'Tis meet that lucky ruler be employ'd,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    I have no gift at all in shrewishness;
            Would they work in mild aspect!
    take your fingers!
  IACHIMO. Your lady
  PROSPERO. Spirits, which by mine art
    Who having into truth, by telling of it,  
         "D sol re" one clef, two notes have I-  
    Look, here I have you; thus I let you go,
    I'll board him presently. O, give me leave.
    The one I have almost forgot- your pardon;
    Nerissa and the rest, stand all aloof;
    His tyranny for trifles; his own bastardy,
    That is too cold in thinking of it now.

  MASTER. Good! Speak to th' mariners; fall to't yarely, or
    A vessel rides fast by, but not prepar'd
  FALSTAFF. Will you sup with me, Master Gower?
  PETRUCHIO. Go, take it up unto thy master's use.
    would have run all out.
    My heart will be a burden to me. Leave me;

  FIRST WITCH. Speak.

    My tears are now prevailing orators.
    But if you faint, as fearing to do so,
    following; but I will not eat with you, drink with you, nor pray
    Than that which dearest father bears his son
    Despite the berard that protects the bear.
    No settled senses of the world can match
Venice. A street
    Ah, who hath any cause to mourn but we?
    I' th' swathing clothes the other, from their nursery
    To bind our loves up in a holy band;
    Keep house and ply his book, welcome his friends,
    manner of his gait, the expressure of his eye, forehead, and
    ent'ring that, if any crave redress of injustice, they should
    Thither must I, and here I leave you, sir.


    For when would you, my liege, or you, or you,
  Rom. Whither?
                     Re-enter AUTOLYCUS
    Hate me! wherefore? O me! what news, my love?
    Shall I live on to see this bastard kneel
  DUKE. This savours not much of distraction.
  DICK. [Aside] Ay, by my faith, the field is honourable, and there
  Or I shall break that merry sconce of yours,
    double occasion- gold, and a means to do the Prince my master
    Keeps honour bright. To have done is to hang
    Ransoming him or pitying, threat'ning th' other;

    A year's age on me!
    For now they kill me with a living death.

  ORLANDO. If there be truth in sight, you are my Rosalind.
    Did my heart love till now? Forswear it, sight!
    mischief he does, if his weapon be out; he will foin like any
Enter Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, and Leonato.
    Married your royalty, was wife to your place;
  BRABANTIO. O thou foul thief, where hast thou stow'd my daughter?

  KING. O God! that one might read the book of fate,
  PISTOL. Cality! Calen o custure me! Art thou a gentleman?
    Set from our o'er-match'd forces forth for aid.
    To eat the world's due, by the grave and thee.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  CADE. And Adam was a gardener.
    Have' said she 'given his mistress that confection
    What is't you do?
    To harder bosoms! Looking on the lines
    I may be pluck'd into the swallowing womb
  LONGAVILLE. Perchance light in the light. I desire her name.
    No, when my father York and Edward wept
    I'll not endure him.
    truly touch'd with love. If he be sad, he wants money.
  ACHILLES. A maiden battle then? O, I perceive you!
    And pav'd with gold, the Emperor thus desir'd,
  Which works on leases of short-numbered hours,
    Else Paris, and the medicine, and the King,
    therefore, courage, good Aliena.
    Would it not shame thee in so fair a troop
    Unlikely wonders: how these vain weak nails
    Garter.
    Thou com'st not to be made a scorn in Rome-
         And coughing drowns the parson's saw,
    foul linen upon him, as if it were going to bucking, or-it is
    The gilded newt and eyeless venom'd worm,
    his fines, and the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
    So much complexion? Look ye how they change!  
    Whilst he that hears makes fearful action
  LADY. Almost midnight, madam.
    They have chang'd eyes. Delicate Ariel,
    of; of her purse she shall not, for that I'll keep shut. Now of
    She will not quench, and let instructions enter

    The manner and the purpose of his treasons:

  But till this afternoon his passion
  IAGO. Long live she so! and long live you to think so!
    So kind to heart 'tis not enough to give;
  Nurse. God in heaven bless her!
  OLIVIA. Whence came you, sir?
    So many hours must I take my rest;
    Made love to Nedar's daughter, Helena,
  KING. No?
    Crowd to his presence, where their untaught love
    I sold not Maine, I lost not Normandy;
  Ham. Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her
                            Enter CLOWN  
    Though you hear now- too late!- yet now's a time:
    Till it hath travell'd, and is mirror'd there
    Be bold to tell you that I am your son,
    I bear unto the banish'd Valentine;
    That he would please to alter the King's course,
    Where you may temper her by your persuasion
  VINCENTIO. Thy father! O villain! he is a sailmaker in Bergamo.
    Farewell the neighing steed and the shrill trump,
                                              [Exit an Officer.]
    trial; which if-Lord have mercy on thee for a hen! So, my good

    Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    light. Would he were return'd! Marry, this Claudio is condemned
    Farewell, thou lob of spirits; I'll be gone.  
     Than doth, within a dull, stale, tired bed,
    I swear 'tis better to be much abused
    present this twelve o'clock at midnight.
    I'll rob none but myself; and let me die,
    As if he had been loosed out of hell
    Send for your daughter by your servant here;
  OTHELLO. Hang her! I do but say what she is. So delicate with her
    Or russet-pated choughs, many in sort,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Is this the government of Britain's isle,
    Good troth, you do me wrong, good sooth, you do,
  Bene. O God, sir, here's a dish I love not! I cannot endure my Lady
    If these be they, I know not how to wish
    That lets it hop a little from her hand,
    'Tis true; for Friar Lawrence met them both
AEGEON. Unless the fear of death doth make me dote,
    Of excellent dissembling, and let it look
Milan. The DUKE'S palace
  Gon. This man hath had good counsel! A hundred knights?
    Canst thou not speak? O traitors! murderers!
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>

    Whose loss hath pierc'd him deep and scarr'd his heart;
SCENE 2.
    Dispropertied their freedoms; holding them
    you see your time, take her by the hand, away with her to
London. The QUEEN'S apartments
    I did demand what news from Shrewsbury.
                         Enter Vintner.  
    This Percy was the man nearest my soul;


    postscript.
  CLOTEN. I cannot find those runagates; that villain
  TROILUS. Why, brother Hector,
  The goodly objects which abroad they find
  CLARENCE. I must perforce. Farewell.
  AUFIDIUS. What is thy name?
    two of the banish'd Duke's pages.
    This child was prisoner to the womb, and is
  LUCIO. [To ISABELLA] O, to him, to him, wench! He will relent;  
    That's sure of death without it- at once pluck out
    Why suffer'st thou thy sons, unburied yet,
    became as a prey to her grief; in fine, made a groan of her last
  A SOOTHSAYER
  MRS. PAGE. Heaven guide him to thy husband's cudgel; and
    With treacherous crowns; and three corrupted men-
    Why, for my King! Tush, that's a wooden thing!
          No squire in debt nor no poor knight;
    John.
    must hence, and leave it unpick'd.  [Knocking within]  More
  RODERIGO. My name is Roderigo.
    How now, Master Brook. Master Brook, the matter will
  LORDS. We have.
    death, thy liberty into bondage. I will deal in poison with thee,
  CLOWN. Your worship had like to have given us one, if you had not  
    An eye-sore to our solemn festival!
    But that I was a journeyman to grief?
    Which is that god in office, guiding men?  
    Circumstantial and the Lie Direct.
  MOWBRAY. Shall we go draw our numbers, and set on?
    We'll fit the kid-fox with a pennyworth.
  ALL. Come, come.
    Should go so general current through the world.

  I know his eye doth homage otherwhere;
    And know how well I have deserv'd this ring,

  That hadst a wife once call'd Aemilia,
                           Enter A CITIZEN
  Gon. We must do something, and i' th' heat.

    sent to borrow of me, that my provision was out.
    Than when I parted hence, but still subsisting
    Did in your name receive it; pardon the fault, I pray.
    That the main harvest reaps; loose now and then
    oath, and a jest with a sad brow will do with a fellow that never
     Down from the waist they are Centaurs,
    you, for out o' question you were born in a merry hour.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE

    As loud as thine, rattle the welkin's ear
    And have forsworn you with Hortensio.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Brother, farewell; I will unto the King;
  TITANIA. Be kind and courteous to this gentleman;
    My body up to shame.
    There's a letter for you.
    For my part, I am so attir'd in wonder,
    And yet to be afeard of my deserving
               Enter BIANCA, and LUCENTIO as CAMBIO
    find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
    To rot itself with motion.
     Women will all turn monsters.
    I'll find a thousand shifts to get away.
  LUCIO. Why? For filling a bottle with a tun-dish. I would the Duke
    And you recount your sorrows to a stone.  
    For I am sure you have your hands full all
    shall be honourable. I'll procure this fat rogue a charge of

    The bravest questant shrinks, find what you seek,

    Farewell; the leisure and the fearful time
SCENE V.
  CORIN. For not being at court? Your reason.
  ALL. [Kneeling] Long live Queen Margaret, England's happiness!
    I do not think a braver gentleman,
  IAGO. Come, you are too severe a moraler. As the time, the place,
    When it is borne in high authority.
    we run ourselves aground; bestir, bestir.               Exit
    My conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love?
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    bald-pated lying rascal, you must be hooded, must you? Show your
    wasted in giving reckonings; all the other gifts appertinent to
    Ourself, my Lord Protector, and the rest,
    Did I let pass th' abuse done to my niece?
  ANNE. Where is he?
    A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
    No; I would tell what 'twere to be a judge

    Go, tell the Prince; run to the Capulets;
    Offers, as I do, in a sign of peace,
    Lest your displeasure should enlarge itself
    I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune.

  PORTIA. I pray you, let me look upon the bond.
    That I will shortly send thy soul to heaven,
    As I might love. I never gave him token.
                          Enter a Messenger.
    That Romeo should, upon receipt thereof,
    quickly.  
    so that, conclusions to be as kisses, if your four negatives make
    Both are alike, and both alike we like.  
  EXETER. Scorn and defiance, slight regard, contempt,
    He had no legs that practis'd not his gait;
  LYSANDER. Thou canst compel no more than she entreat;
    rest of their company from their sport, to make another
    Mislead night-wanderers, laughing at their harm?
    And neither party loser.
    that mustard.
    Whose influence is begot of that loose grace
    Since the first sword was drawn about this question,
Scene II.
  ARMADO. I do say thou art quick in answers; thou heat'st my blood.
  He shall not die; so much we tender him.
    we pay tribute? If Caesar can hide the sun from us with a blanket,
    By that which has undone thee: hinge thy knee,
    How like Eve's apple doth thy beauty grow,
    you have show'd yourself a wise physician, and Sir Hugh
    As doth import you.
  JULIA. Counsel, Lucetta; gentle girl, assist me;

  PISANIO. Well, madam, we must take a short farewell,
    Thou play'dst most foully for't; yet it was said
    But that your daughter, ere she seems as won,
    This foul Egyptian hath betrayed me.
  Soul-killing witches that deform the body,
                     10

Scene V.
  AARON.  [Aside]  Clubs, clubs! These lovers will not keep the

    And with them scourge the bad revolting stars
  KING HENRY. Yes, Captain; but with this acknowledgment,
    Go not away. What have you there, my friend?
    sees 'em not! It grieves me to see so many dip their meat in one
    What is there? Now, fellow,
  THESEUS. Here come the lovers, full of joy and mirth.
    My spirit and my place have in them power

    Fear, and not love, begets his penitence.
  FLORIZEL. I think you have  
  Let this sad interim like the ocean be
    sir, or shall I sweat for you? If I do sweat, they are the drops
    of gold most resolutely snatch'd on Monday night and most
    honour show'd in't. For my own part, I must needs confess I have
    To hold your slaught'ring hands and keep the peace.
      What shall he have that kill'd the deer?
    At duty, more than I could frame employment;
  TRANIO. And you, sir; you are welcome.

  VALENTINE. What figure?  
  HERMIA. God speed fair Helena! Whither away?
    To bring your most imperial Majesties
    And sinks most lamentably. Had our general
  COUNTESS. This was your motive
    That can therein tax any private party?
    and my pension shall seem the more reasonable. A good wit will
    Till he did look on me; since it is so,
                           Exeunt. Manent Musicians [and Nurse].
    Will force him think I have pick'd the lock and ta'en
    Or do I dream? Or have I dream'd till now?

    dost thou not speak, Elbow?
    They are set here for examples.

  TUBAL. Yes, other men have ill luck too: Antonio, as I heard in
    In Ross and Willoughby, wanting your company,
    That can such sweet use make of what they hate,
    A damned saint, an honourable villain!
    comes.
    Sever themselves and madly sweep the sky,

    Our tears are not yet brew'd.
     The knowledge of themselves.
  FIRST LORD. But you say she's honest.
  MRS. OVERDONE. What proclamation, man?
    Of what it is not. Then, thrice-gracious Queen,
    And hale him hither.
  Edm. I beseech you, sir, pardon me. It is a letter from my brother

    To th' people, beg their stinking breaths.
    therefore follow me, and I'll direct you how you shall go by him.
     glass.
    Thy George, profan'd, hath lost his lordly honour;
  HERMIA. [Starting] Help me, Lysander, help me; do thy best
  SICINIUS. Has spoken like a traitor and shall answer
    To cope malicious censurers, which ever
  Ham. Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounc'd it to you,
    For his return.                               [Solemn music]
    Which is the lady I must seize upon?
    Unseemly woman in a seeming man!
  FLORIZEL. Worthy Camillo,
                 Re-enter SERVANTS
    If that the youth will come this way to-morrow,
    is the way; and there dwells one Mistress Quickly, which
    So under fortune, which you thought had been
  Ham. Well said, old mole! Canst work i' th' earth so fast?
  MONTANO. Worthy Othello, I am hurt to danger.
    me, I shall never be able to fight a blow! O Lord, my heart!
  FIRST BROTHER. Like hardiment Posthumus hath

    As his misdoubts present occasion:
Another part of the forest
  Kent. None.
    For this, being smelt, with that part cheers each part;
    And free my country from calamity  
  CRESSIDA. O yes, an 'twere a cloud in autumn!
    With full accord to all our just demands;
  The saddler had it, sir; I kept it not.
    Ready to drop upon me, that, when I wak'd,
    thirteen, this spirit walks in.

    Who in contempt shall hiss at thee again;
    Shall leave his native channel and o'erswell
    Or with a base and boist'rous sword enforce
    To plague the inventor. This even-handed justice
    But who is substituted against the French
  They say this town is full of cozenage;

  GLOUCESTER. So dear I lov'd the man that I must weep.
    To know the thing I am forbid to know,
    I am weary; yea, my memory is tir'd.
    name her, child, if she be a whore.

    But rather lose her to an African;
    O wicked wall, through whom I see no bliss,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. I never heard any soldier dislike it.
    If thou dost nod, thou break'st thy instrument;
    I could do this; and that with no rash potion,
 Exit
    Taught him to face me out of his acquaintance,
                             Enter Edgar.
Enter ARMADO and MOTH
  Greg. [aside to Sampson] No.
    Now, by mine honour, by my life, my troth,
    Here in the prison. Do me the common right
    And 'tis but wisdom to make strong against him.
  SHALLOW. I must excuse myself, Master Ford.
    First, Provost, let me bail these gentle three.
  SIMPCOX. I know not.
    deer hath them as huge as the rascal. Is the single man therefore
  KING RICHARD. Be eloquent in my behalf to her.
  Embrace thy brother there; rejoice with him.
    Go thou and fill another room in hell.
    But what is your affair in Elsinore?
  KING RICHARD. O God, O God! that e'er this tongue of mine
    And mayst be honor'd, being Cato's son.
    true that thou art beauteous; truth itself that thou art lovely.
  BUCKINGHAM. What, my gracious lord?

  LADY MACBETH. Sit, worthy friends; my lord is often thus,
    Who I myself struck down. And thence it is
  PROTEUS. My tales of love were wont to weary you;


  CHAMBERLAIN. Because they speak no English, thus they pray'd
    Or else disdainfully, which shall shake him more

  
  To tell sad stories of my own mishaps.
    There's not a note of mine that's worth the noting.
  HOSTESS. Pray ye, pacify yourself, Sir John; there comes no
    But on this travail look for greater birth.
    I would detain you here some month or two
    And, though mine enemy, restor'd again
    The mistress which I serve quickens what's dead,
The FRENCH KING'S palace
    O, he was gentle, mild, and virtuous!

    his love.
    But what compact mean you to have with us?
Enter TITANIA, with her train
    But was a race of heaven. They are so still,

    Other affairs must now be managed.
    And they, 'twas they, that did her all this wrong.
  PETRUCHIO. Father, 'tis thus: yourself and all the world
           For, oh, love's bow
SCENE:
    and page to Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk.
    And every one his love-feat will advance
    When you and I met at Saint Albans last
    In simple and low things to prince it much
    Or go to bed now, being two hours to day.
    But whatsoe'er thou tak'st me for, I'm sure
    When the battle's lost and won.
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
    How now?
    Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter,


    Word of denial! Froth and scum, thou liest.
    Troilus methinks mounted the Troyan walls,
    will so fright them both that they will kill one another by the

  Edg. Give me your hand. You are now within a foot
    I see a woman may be made a fool
    Curbing his lavish spirit; and, to conclude,
    Our purpose may hold there.- But stay, what noise,
    That you have ta'en a tardy sluggard here.
  KING. Here.

    When this is known, then to divide the times-
  MESSENGER. Such news, my lord, as grieves me to report.
    stand by the church.

  LOVELL. To the Cardinal's;
  PRINCE OF WALES. Methinks a woman of this valiant spirit
  NORTHUMBERLAND. The news is very fair and good, my lord.
  THESEUS. The wall, methinks, being sensible, should curse again.
  Nurse. Even or odd, of all days in the year,
    And from the powd'ring tub of infamy
  MACBETH. Whence is that knocking?
Britain. CYMBELINE'S palace
    The Regent hath with Talbot broke his word
  And you in Grecian tires are painted new:  
  Poins.
  TIMON. The little casket bring me hither.
    the envious a scholar, a statesman, and a soldier. Therefore you
    And I have play'd the sheep in losing him.
    A valiant son-in-law thou shalt enjoy;
    Shall be, and make new nations; he shall flourish,
  Hot. Away.

    I have no brother, I am like no brother;
    O nature, what hadst thou to do in hell
    Since arm from arm that voice doth us affray,
    my master is a kind of a knave; but that's all one if he be but
    There's nothing I have done yet, o' my conscience,
    A thirsty evil; and when we drink we die.
  GLOUCESTER. Will you enforce me to a world of cares?
    The more delay'd, delighted. Be content;
  DUKE. Be clamorous and leap all civil bounds,
    To loves mistook, and so be mock'd withal
    And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes?
    would change my humanity with a baboon.
  Ham. 'The mobled queen'?
  MESSENGER. The King comes here tonight.
    If I had thought the sight of my poor image
  FIRST LORD. The higher pow'rs forbid!
    But if I were as wise as honest, then
    He holds your temper in a high respect
  PANDARUS. I'll be sworn 'tis true; he will weep you, and 'twere a
    know, to divide him inventorially would dozy th' arithmetic of

    And everything is left at six and seven.
    As now they are, and making practis'd smiles
    Sign me a present pardon for my brother

  ANGELO. Well; the matter?
  Nor praise the deep vermilion in the rose,
    But minister communication of

    with her.
Enter POSTHUMUS and two GAOLERS
    A man that more detests, more stirs against,
    The which no balm can cure but his heart-blood
    Repair there to me.
  Pedro. Yea, that she did; but yet, for all that, an if she did not

    I would lose all, ay, sacrifice them all
    If we no more meet till we meet in heaven,

    That noble honour'd lord, is fear'd and lov'd?
  Have seal'd his rigorous statutes with their bloods,

  WILLIAM STAFFORD. But angry, wrathful, and inclin'd to blood,
  PAGE. I know a discontented gentleman
  SILENCE. An we shall be merry, now comes in the sweet o' th' night.
  Nurse. Tybalt is gone, and Romeo banished;
     Drew on me here again.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  DEMETRIUS. There is no following her in this fierce vein;


  LUCETTA. O, they love least that let men know their love.
    Mortimer his wife. 'Rivo!' says the drunkard. Call in ribs, call
    But life itself, my wife, and all the world,
    de mails-
    weigh more reasons in her balance. Nay, an you be a cursing
  DEMETRIUS. Listen, fair madam: let it be your glory
    Which must decide it.
    But since that thou canst talk of love so well,
    Fitter for sickness and for crazy age.
    Is now most still, most secret, and most grave,
    Your sudden coming o'er to play with you.
  GLOUCESTER. Ha?
    As more at large your Grace shall understand.
    Such goodly things as you!
    Of Harry Percy and the Prince of Wales.
         Enter MORTIMER, brought in a chair, and GAOLERS
    But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true
    your travel.
  SEBASTIAN. I do remember.                               Exeunt
  CAPUCIUS. Noble lady,
                     A plain in Syria
  Be seen at any Syracusian marts and fairs;
    Her foes shake like a field of beaten corn,
  PAROLLES. Go to, thou art a witty fool; I have found thee.
ACT III. SCENE 1.
    But sanctuary children never till now.
    Proclaim my brother Edmund Mortimer
    Ha, ha! keep time. How sour sweet music is
    How now, what noise! That spirit's possess'd with haste  
    To overbear it; and we are all well pleas'd,
    As black and white, my eye will scarcely see it.
  CAMILLO. Ay, my good lord.
    Please you to dispose yourselves.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Good wits will be jangling; but, gentles,
    My eyes, my lord, can look as swift as yours:
  AGUECHEEK. I'll stay a month longer. I am a fellow o' th' strangest
    You have in manner with your sinful hours
    Should ever get that privilege of me.
    What shall be said to thee?
  Nor are mine cars with thy tongue's tune delighted,
    Your lordship to accept.
    Tell me, how fares our loving mother?
    Till he behold them formed in th' applause
  FLORIZEL. These your unusual weeds to each part of you
  CARDINAL WOLSEY               CARDINAL CAMPEIUS
  MRS. FORD. Where is Nan now, and her troop of fairies, and
                             Enter an AEDILE
  KING PHILIP. Peace, lady! pause, or be more temperate.
  Claudio, a young lord of Florence.
    he there; that he; look you there.
    That will take pains to blow a horn before her?
    outpriz'd by a trifle.
    Some say that ravens foster forlorn children,
    And bear possession of our person here,

    What tumult's this?
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Go, carry Sir John Falstaff to the Fleet;

    That speak my salutation in their minds,
    And answer me declin'd, sword against sword,
    Justice to break her sword! One more, one more;  
  CELIA. And we will mend thy wages. I like this place,
  YORK. 'Twas by rebellion against his king.
    And light thee on the way to Mantua.
    Nobler than that it covers. Let thy effects
    Touching King Henry's oath and your succession.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    And Fortune, on his damned quarrel smiling,  

    sometimes the beam of her view gilded my foot, sometimes my
    That they may break his foaming courser's back

    Criest now 'O earth, yield us that king again,
    The Marquis Dorset, as I hear, is fled
    will eat a last year's pippin of mine own graffing, with a dish

    This paper has undone me. 'Tis th' account
    How? Will she none? Doth she not give us thanks?
  And careful hours with time's deformed hand
    Besides himself, are all the English peers,  
    I should not make so dear a show of zeal.
    In that he wears the badge of Somerset.
    Is shiny, and they say we shall embattle
  RIVERS. Sir Richard Ratcliff, let me tell thee this:
  EVANS. It is that fery person for all the orld, as just as you

             If we have unearned luck
  ALL. Come down.
  WOLSEY. Till I find more than will or words to do it-
    And help to arm me. Leave me, I say.
  MACBETH. I'll bring you to him.
    Which, with ourselves, all rest at thy dispose.       Exeunt
    Twice to your visor and half once to you.
    There is no wrong, but every thing is right.
  CLOWN. Well held out, i' faith! No, I do not know you; nor I am not
    Did see her, hear her, at that hour last night
    Now bless thyself; thou met'st with things dying, I with things
    More relative than this. The play's the thing
  FRANCIS, a drawer
                                                          Exeunt
  SOLANIO,   friend to Antonio and Bassanio
  Hor. In what particular thought to work I know not;
    Where the dead corpse of Bassianus lay;
    And make a chequer'd shadow on the ground;
    That every minute of his being thrusts  
  GRUMIO. Master, if ever I said loose-bodied gown, sew me in the
    Audrey. And how, Audrey, am I the man yet? Doth my simple feature


  Being your vassal bound to stay your leisure.
    But it must grieve young Pyrrhus now at home,
  ROSALINE. Play, music, then. Nay, you must do it soon.
     One step I have advanc'd thee. If thou dost
  ELBOW. Ay, sir; whom I thank heaven, is an honest woman-

    Than to abhor himself; even he drops down
  OTHELLO.              Farewell, farewell.
    my young lady bid me enquire you out. What she bid me say, I will
    More active-valiant or more valiant-young,

  SECOND KEEPER. Here in this country, where we now remain.
                           Enter CLAUDIO

  FIRST SOLDIER. Boskos thromuldo boskos.
  Pol. You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.
    To royalize his blood I spent mine own.
    Come on, Lord Hastings, will you go with me?
  CRESSIDA. Come, you are deceiv'd, I think of no such thing.
  MARIA. Nay, either tell me where thou hast been, or I will not open
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS

    Come, go, good Juliet. I dare no longer stay.
    So is it in the music of men's lives.
    cheapen her; fair, or I'll never look on her; mild, or come not
    Yet, by mine honour, I will deal in this
  ROSALIND. God save you, brother.
    Appear more wise and modest to the world.
    She would mock me into air; O, she would laugh me
    This will I send; and something else more plain
  And therefore to your fair no painting set,
  Dog. God save the foundation!
    With wrinkled brows, with nods, with rolling eyes.
    Collected from his life. I'll startle you
    To bear my greeting to the senators
    To give you over at this first encounter,
  PROSPERO. Come on; obey.  
    Protects not us; then why should we be tender
    Have aught committed that is hardly borne
  COMINIUS. Yet one time he did call me by my name.
                                    Exeunt Antony and Trebonius.
    They set him free without his ransom paid,
  MARIANA, betrothed to Angelo
    To whom should this be?

    Lewis marry Blanch! O boy, then where art thou?
    And they shall be themselves.
    that office to signify their pleasures.
    Of man and beast the infinite malady
  Mer. If love be rough with you, be rough with love.
    put another question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the
    he.
    Shall Suffolk ever have of Margaret.          [She is going]
  CLIFFORD. How hast thou injur'd both thyself and or us!
    gentleman.'
    By thee was punched full of deadly holes.
    More fiery by night's blackness; hereditary
    melancholy; and then there's a partridge wing saved, for the fool

               Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
    Seduc'd the pitch and height of his degree
Rome. A street near the gate
    Can woman me unto 't. Where is my son, I pray you?
  ANTONY. Who's gone this morning?
  Ham. He poisons him i' th' garden for's estate. His name's Gonzago.  
    Or had he scap'd, methinks we should have heard
  BASTARD. Go, bear him in thine arms.
    score and odd posts; and here, travel tainted as I am, have, in  
    too.
    Will make my boldness manners. Now, good angels
    But mantled in your own.
    taber.
    Should all but answer for that peevish brat?
    Such things become the hatch and brood of time;

    Harry, how fares your uncle?
    But that which gives my soul the greatest spurn
    These accusations, and these grievous crimes  
    And baited it with all th' unmuzzled thoughts

  Ham. How chances it they travel? Their residence, both in
    Thou ask'st me such a question. Have I not been
  CAIUS. Vere is mine host de Jarteer?
  KING JOHN. From whom hast thou this great commission, France,
ACT V. SCENE I.
    Not working with the eye without the ear,
  Edg. Gone, sir, farewell.-
    And creep into it far before thy time?
  DUKE. I can hardly believe that, since you know not what you speak.
    Their battering cannon, charged to the mouths,
    serve the Jew any longer.
    And let the nurse this night sit up with you;
    Throttle their practis'd accent in their fears,
    Haply the seas, and countries different,

    Is guilty of a several bastardy
DUKE. Stay, stand apart; I know not which is which.
  BRUTUS. Mark you that?  
    Whiles he was hast'ning- in the chase, it seems,
    for the defence of a town our general is excellent.
    Is goads, thorns, nettles, tails of wasps;
    Immediately we do exile him hence.
  LORD HASTINGS                      LORD STAFFORD
    Welcome, good Messala.
    fellow be look'd to. Where's my cousin Toby? Let some of my
  Ay, and break it in your face, so he break it not behind.
    That she repeals him for her body's lust;
    And makes us rather bear those ills we have
  FLORIZEL. And those that you'll procure from King Leontes?
    And so he'll die; and, rising so again,
  SEBASTIAN. I have no hope
    I'll attend her here,
    the saying is true- the empty vessel makes the greatest sound.

  SHYLOCK. Three thousand ducats- well.
  PETRUCHIO. Why, here's no crab; and therefore look not sour.
    A form of strangeness as we pass along.  
  DEMETRIUS
  SIR TOBY. Go to, go to; peace, peace; we must deal gently with him.
  Fal. Four, Hal. I told thee four.
  GLOUCESTER. Ay, gentle cousin, were it light enough.
  KING HENRY. Be patient, lords, and give them leave to speak.

    Two may keep counsel when the third's away:
  APEMANTUS. Not so well as plain dealing, which will not cost a man
    In my opinion yet thou seest not well.

  LADY MACDUFF. Now, God help thee, poor monkey! But how wilt thou do
    spirits and his. They, by observing of him, do bear themselves
  Bene. Do not you love me?
                      Sennet. Exeunt all but Brutus and Cassius.
    Chrish save me, I will cut off your head.
    Such comfort as do lusty young men feel
    As harbingers preceding still the fates
    Must tarre the mastiffs on, as 'twere their bone.          Exeunt

    Assured bondage?'
    Can counsel and speak comfort to that grief
    Throw your mistempered weapons to the ground
                                 The Lady speaks again in Welsh.
  AUMERLE. Fitzwater, thou art damn'd to hell for this.
     To temper clay. Yea, is it come to this?
      horse;
    That with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood,
  When the sun shines let foolish gnats make sport,
    list, rise when she list, all is as she will; and truly she
    And flesh his spirit in a warlike soil,  
  COSTARD. Indeed, 'a must shoot nearer, or he'll ne'er hit the
    When he has run his course and sleeps in blessings,
    rude prince, and you took it like a sensible lord. I have check'd
    Ring the alarum bell. Murther and treason!
  BOLINGBROKE. Whither?
    This have I rumour'd through the peasant towns

    And I am faint and cannot fly their fury;
    For happy wedlock hours.
    The knight oppos'd.
     Filths savour but themselves. What have you done?
    But with that surname- a good memory

    The covering sky is nothing; Bohemia nothing;
Cyprus. A street.
    To hide your doings and to silence that
  IAGO. Lie-
    They sparkle still the right Promethean fire;
  DUMAIN. As fair as day.
    To make a virtue of necessity,
    The noble man have mercy.
    You must needs dine with me. Go not you hence
  Osr. The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
    The blood weeps from my heart when I do shape,
    In resolution as I swore before.                        Exit
    The old Anchises bear, so from the waves of Tiber
    A soldier by the honour-giving hand
  OLIVER. Good morrow, fair ones; pray you, if you know,
    A noble cunning. You were us'd to load me
    unfolding star calls up the shepherd. Put not yourself into
    That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
     Mark- I say, instantly; and carry it so
    And yet, good faith, I wish'd myself a man,
    where my abridgment comes.
    This is the way to kindle, not to quench.
  CLARENCE. In God's name, what art thou?
    And wish, for her sake more than for mine own,
  FORD. I make bold to press with so little preparation upon
  POSTHUMUS. So, if I prove a good repast to the spectators, the dish

  To truths translated, and for true things deemed.
    estate as we are.
  PAGE. How now, Meg!
    Go, bear them hence; I will not hear them speak.
    Or let us lose it. We do here pronounce,
    CARDINAL PANDULPH, the Pope's legate
  CORIOLANUS. To brag unto them 'Thus I did, and thus!'
    Over the King in's tongue.
    A little proudly, and great deal misprizing
  
    When thou hast broke it in such dear degree?
    ever govern'd frenzy. I will tell you-he beat me grievously
    To gain the timely inn, and near approaches
  FALSTAFF. Well, on: Mistress Ford, you say-
  CHARMIAN. Too slow a messenger.               [Applies an asp]
    And afterward determine our proceedings.
    take a fault upon me that he did, I think verily he had been
    O that my tongue were in the thunder's mouth!
    again; and till then, sit thee down, sorrow.
  MALCOLM. This tune goes manly.

    drunken knaves.
    malignancy of my fate might perhaps distemper yours; therefore I

    To cure this deadly grief.  
  The region cloud hath masked him from me now.
    What perils past, what crosses to ensue,
    gross one.' 'Nay,' said I, 'a good wit.' 'Just,' said she, 'it
    And knew no other kin.
    In dumb significants proclaim your thoughts.
    let it be as humours and conceits shall govern.
  Beat. Nor will you not tell me who you are?
    in suffering; behold now presently, and swoon for what's to come
    Turning the widows' tears, the orphans' cries,
    Inform us of thy fortunes; for it seems
    themselves upon thee.
                 Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, [with some
    As to rejoice at friends but newly found.
      Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
    That did but lately foil the sinewy Charles;
  GRUMIO. Nay, look you, sir, he tells you flatly what his mind is.
  PRINCE. And the boy that I gave Falstaff. 'A had him from me
    And I am glad of it with all my heart!
    back, and the whole frame stands upon pins. Prick him no more.
    Is dearest to me I have no skill in sense
  SUFFOLK. Thy wife too! That's some wrong indeed. What's yours?
  GEORGE. Then is sin struck down, like an ox, and iniquity's throat
    That leaves look pale, dreading the winter's near.
    go?
  Glou. It did always seem so to us; but now, in the division of the

    Mark how he bears his course, and runs me up
     If you do chance to hear of that blind traitor,
  TOUCHSTONE. Most shallow man! thou worm's meat in respect of a good
    near me; noble, or not I for an angel; of good discourse, an

    And something from the palace (always thought

    Or as a bear, encompass'd round with dogs,
    blank of our jurisdiction regal. What canst thou answer to my
        With heigh! with heigh! the thrush and the jay,
    There lives more life in one of your fair eyes,
  HORTENSIO. Content. What's the wager?  
    That for thy right, my self will bear all wrong.
  DUCHESS. Accursed and unquiet wrangling days,
    And when thy car is loaden with their heads,  
  SATURNINUS. Be it so, Titus, and gramercy too.
    Of contradiction; being once chaf'd, he cannot
    this wrong. Terms! names! Amaimon sounds well; Lucifer,
    An if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  HECTOR. Stand fair, I pray thee; let me look on thee.
    Not utt'red by base sale of chapmen's tongues;  
    From these old arms and legs, by the good gods,
    The very list, the very utmost bound
    Of common ounces? Will you with counters sum
  TIMON. Ay, you are honest men.
    When arm in arm they both came swiftly running,
    Being native burghers of this desert city,
  MUSICIANS
    This bond expires- I do expect return
    His army is a ragged multitude  
    With an aspect more favourable. Good my lords,
  ARTHUR. O heaven! I thank you, Hubert.
  PISANIO. Lady,
    To let the troops pass fairly, or I'll find
    who hath got, as I take it, an ague. Where the devil
    He wrought upon her.
    son?
    And cry 'Content!' to that which grieves my heart,
  BAPTISTA. A mighty man of Pisa. By report
  To find where your true image pictured lies,
  DESDEMONA. Tonight, my lord?
    Our bosom interest. Go pronounce his present death,
    Promised no less to them?
  TRINCULO. Thou wert but a lost monster.
    faults, and money enough.
    box?
    We'll serve him too, and be his fellow so.
    wealth I have waits on my consent, and my consent goes
  PUCELLE. Wherefore is Charles impatient with his friend?
    bell; and his tongue is the clapper, for what his heart thinks,
    And stain the sun with fog, as sometime clouds
    A Gallian girl at home. He furnaces
    And choke the herbs for want of husbandry.
    And gather by him, as he is behav'd,
  PISTOL. My knight, I will inflame thy noble liver

    Till this man show'd thee? And what art thou now?
  JAQUENETTA. God give you good morrow, Master Person.
     (Alack, too weak the conflict to support!)
    would melt me out of my fat, drop by drop, and liquor
    The still-discordant wav'ring multitude,
    Is at this day in Germany call'd Meisen.
    For I am all the subjects that you have,
  POSTHUMUS. Shall's have a play of this? Thou scornful page,
  HELENA. So methinks;
    I leave myself, my friends, and all for love.
    You know the cause, sir, of my standing here.
  SANDYS. Yes, if I make my play.
    Cleanse the foul body of th' infected world,
    To-morrow in the battle think on me,
    Whose womb unmeasurable and infinite breast
    Room for six scotches more.
  then were you hind'red by the sergeant, to tarry for the
    Come, mistress, you must tell's another tale.
    access? Every wink of an eye some new grace will be born. Our  

    And his gash'd stabs look'd like a breach in nature
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. The conqueror is dismay'd. Proceed, good
    Where stain'd nobility lies trodden on,


    And make your bondmen tremble. Must I bouge?
  ANTONIO. I am dumb.
    Against their will. But who comes here?
    O, stay!  [Aside]  I have no power to let her pass;
    My ventures are not in one bottom trusted,
    The manner of it is, I was taken with the manner.
  Fool. Sirrah, I'll teach thee a speech.
  Bora. Tush! I may as well say the fool's the fool. But seest thou
    From seventeen years till now almost four-score
    surveyest, or seest. But to the place Where? It standeth
    Happiness courts thee in her best array;
    After they heard young Arthur was alive?
    Lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe.
    Answer your summons; Juno does command.
    Let us resolve to scale their flinty bulwarks.
    Examine other beauties.
  BOTTOM. [Starting up] No, I assure you; the wall is down that
  ANNE. What, do you tremble? Are you all afraid?

    Either thou or I, or both, must go with him.
    Which haply by much company might be urg'd;
  FLAVIUS. The gods are witness,
    Till he communicate his parts to others;
    The legions and the horse whole, do you not?  
  PROSPERO. Behold, Sir King,
    But gives all gaze and bent of amorous view
    And he requires your haste-post-haste appearance,

    two, or longer. If you seek us afterwards in other terms, you
  BRUTUS. So it must fall out
    For so I know he is, they know he is-
            That, striking in our country's cause,
    Offend you in my life; never loved Cassio
    Rough and unhospitable. My willing love,
  Serv. Madam, the guests are come, supper serv'd up, you call'd, my
  ULYSSES. The elephant hath joints, but none for courtesy; his legs


  Edg. [aside] O gods! Who is't can say 'I am at the worst'?
Another part of the same street, before the house of Brutus.

    To do a great right do a little wrong,
  Therefore my mistress' eyes are raven black,
    with you. I shall discover a thing to you, wherein
    And do not spread the compost on the weeds
    To be thus is nothing,  
  THESEUS. Go, Philostrate,
    Being had to triumph, being lacked to hope.
  MOTH. By my penny of observation.
    Will hiss me to my grave. Contempt and clamour
  Or any of my leisures ever charmed.
    One desperate grief cures with another's languish.
    Give me some wine, and let me speak a little.  
    laugh but in that maid's company! But, indeed, she is
    And leaving so his service, follow you,
  Claud. I had well hop'd thou wouldst have denied Beatrice, that I
    May have the world in empire!
  CAESAR. Let him appear that's come from Antony.
    For fear and doting. Friends, be gone; you shall
    Burn hotter than my faith.
  Kent. No marvel, you have so bestirr'd your valour. You cowardly
          A thousand thousand to save,
    By east and west let France and England mount

    Poor knave, I blame thee not, thou art o'erwatch'd.
    And in his wisdom hastes our marriage
  SILVIUS. My errand is to you, fair youth;
  PAROLLES. My lord, you give me most egregious indignity.
    In arms as sound as when I woo'd, in heart
    Mortality and mercy in Vienna
    To thy fair way!
  MUSTARDSEED. Hail!
    The Hebrew will turn Christian: he grows kind.
    If not, bleed France, and peace ascend to heaven,
    Cuts off more circumstance: they are at hand;
  LAUNCE. What a block art thou that thou canst not! My staff
    given, is altogether directed by an Irishman- a very vallant
    To see her tears; but be your heart to them
    Below the beam of sight; yet will I still

    Immediate sentence then, and sequent death,
    Thy Doll, and Helen of thy noble thoughts,
                                        Exeunt SILVIA and THURIO
    To paly ashes, thy eyes' windows fall
    From women's eyes this doctrine I derive.
    And on our actions set the name of right
  PETRUCHIO. Why, thou say'st true; it is a paltry cap,
                    Enter Juliet.
    villany? Thou seest I have more flesh than another man, and
  Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,
  PETRUCHIO. I hope better.
    We are two lions litter'd in one day,  
    Tell me, I beseech you, which is the readiest way
    Say Wolsey, that once trod the ways of glory,
  His tender heir might bear his memory:
  PORTER. How got they in, and be hang'd?

  AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  Very wisely, puppies!  
    but I will aggravate my voice so, that I will roar you as gently
  HOST. Ay, that you shall.                        [Music plays]
    Who hast the memory of Hermione,
  BOTTOM. Not so, neither; but if I had wit enough to get out of this
  BRABANTIO.              Humbly I thank your Grace.

    That it went hand in hand even with the vow
  NORFOLK. Such hope have all the line of John of Gaunt!
    Because she was enforc'd, stain'd, and deflower'd?
    boots; we'll ride all night. O sweet Pistol! Away, Bardolph!
SCENE III.
  ISABELLA. In brief- to set the needless process by,

  SERVANT. Soldiers, sir.
    I'll do, I'll do, and I'll do.
  SHALLOW. It is very just. Look, here comes good Sir John. Give me
    out again, or I will ride thee a nights like a mare.
  SECOND MURDERER. Why, he shall never wake until the great
    Than you may call to comfort you, for I  
     Pierce every sense about thee!- Old fond eyes,
    and gipes, and knaveries, and mocks; I have forgot his name.
    So hath your Highness; never King of England
  AJAX. O, meaning you! I will go learn more of it.            Exeunt
  DUKE. Nay, it is possible enough to judgement.
    To Julius Caesar's ill-erected tower,
  Guil. Faith, her privates we.
    Nor Cymbeline dreams that they are alive.
    I am the last of noble Edward's sons,
  GENTLEWOMAN. Ay, but their sense is shut.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    The good precedence; fie upon 'but yet'!
    Than youthful April shall with all his show'rs.
    Shall then be his, and like a vine grow to him;
  CHAMBERLAIN. Well said, my lord.
    It is the part of men to fear and tremble
    Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet.                   [Dies.]
    Dar'st thou, thou little better thing than earth,
    I to my grave, where peace and rest lie with me!
    roast malt-worms. For the boy- there is a good angel about him;
    Can do no more.
    Your skill shall, like a star i' th' darkest night,
    was very loath to lay his fingers off it. And then he offered it
  Edm. Brother, I advise you to the best. Go arm'd. I am no honest man
  FLAVIUS. O, let me stay
  ESCALUS. Every letter he hath writ hath disvouch'd other.
  ACHILLES. If not Achilles, nothing.
    Be you my time to bring it to some shape.
    Through my burn'd bosom, nor entreat the north
  For if you were by my unkindness shaken

                                         Exeunt MOTH and COSTARD
    To entreat your Majesty to visit him.
    That, upon knowledge of my parentage,
    Long continuance, and increasing,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Go fetch me something; I'll break ope the gate.
    My fellow-scholars, and to keep those statutes  
  PERDITA. Out, alas!
    He flatly says he'll not lay down his arms.
    What news, friar, of the Duke?
    My thought, whose murther yet is but fantastical,
  ANTONY. Cried he? and begg'd 'a pardon?
  Hor. There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
    That reacheth from the restful English Court
  Lear. What two crowns shall they be?
  YORK. O God, that Somerset, who in proud heart
    We'll hear ourselves again.
    To amorous Phillida. Why art thou here,
    well cook'd.

    Do curse the gout, serpigo, and the rheum,
    Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage,
  EMILIA. O thou dull Moor! That handkerchief thou speak'st of
    you will make his excuse.
  I went to seek him. In the street I met him,
                                        Exeunt all but HORTENSIO
  Fran. Anon, anon, sir.- Look down into the Pomgarnet, Ralph.
    Your valour puts well forth; pray follow.
    Out of himself?  
  LUCILIUS. Give the word, ho, and stand.
  FORD. How so, sir; did she change her determination?
    We are not here. That you should here repent you,
    That you do charge men with. Stand no more off,
       Re-enter BIGOT and attendants, who bring in
  MRS. OVERDONE. Marry, sir, that's Claudio, Signior Claudio.
    There is another friar that set them on;
                                                      Exit above
    and our Isbels o' th' country are nothing like your old ling and
    Though I should swear I saw't. 'Tis very much.
    For when would you, my lord, or you, or you,
Enter Lennox and another Lord.
    enrolled in the Capitol, his glory not extenuated, wherein he was  
  Reg. Wherefore to Dover? Wast thou not charg'd at peril-
    Fetch me this herb, and be thou here again
  Abr. You lie.
    Where shall it find a harbour in the earth?
    passionate humour of mine will change; it was wont to
    Meantime, have patience.
    Your oath, my lord, is vain and frivolous.
    uncape.
    he is pure air and fire; and the dull elements of earth and water
    This was his basket.
  QUEEN. Thrice-noble Suffolk, 'tis resolutely spoke.
  KATHERINA. Let me entreat you.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I think thou art an ass.
    Thou kill'st me in his life; giving him breath,

    From Cupid's shoulder pluck his painted wings,
  PISTOL. He hears with ears.
    And on his grave-stone this insculpture, which
    Will well become such sweet-complaining grievance.
  ANTONY. Fie, wrangling queen!
  TITANIA. Set your heart at rest;
  KING HENRY. Madame my interpreter, what says she?

  Dog. A good old man, sir; he will be talking. As they say, 'When
  O, one by nature's outwards so commended

    Where it perceives it is but faintly home.  
    My faculties nor person, yet will be
    into so strong a liking with old Sir Rowland's youngest son?
    I'll follow him no more with bootless prayers.
  Shall you pace forth, your praise shall still find room,
    Have misdemean'd yourself, and not a little,
    bloody coxcomb too. For the love of God, your help! I had rather
    away the time till Falstaff come, I prithee do thou stand in some
    Nor wish'd to hold my peace.
  SUFFOLK. True; made the lame to leap and fly away.
    Offering their own lives in their young's defence
  Prince. The southern wind
    Than flatter him in a bower.
  MACBETH. The service and the loyalty lowe,
     Is it two days ago since I beat thee and tripp'd up thy heels
  IRAS. Am I not an inch of fortune better than she?
  QUEEN MARGARET. Warwick, these words have turn'd my hate to love;
    Out at mine eyes in tender womanish tears.-
  GLOUCESTER. My lord, will't please you pass along?
    it the measure of the court? Receives not thy nose court-odour
  Ham. How does the Queen?
    O, 'tis the spite of hell, the fiend's arch-mock,
    Small joy have I in being England's Queen.
    One touch of nature makes the whole world kin-
  Hero. Good Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice and desire her to rise.

    The way of our profession is against it;

    Mine honour into lust, to take away
    Whom Fortune with her ivory hand wafts to her;
  SECOND LORD. They shall be no more than needful there, if they were
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  PISTOL. Bardolph, a soldier, firm and sound of heart,
    What hoop should hold us stanch, from edge to edge

  MACBETH. Liar and slave!
    cheer.' So 'a cried out 'God, God, God!' three or four times. Now  
  COUNTESS. Let me see what he writes, and when he means to come.
    Can equally move with them. Provide your going;
  SIR TOBY. Ah, rogue!
    The King that lov'd him, as the state stood then,
    With nuptial knot, if thou vouchsafe to grant
  ESCALUS. My lord.
    might he be, what a beard hast thou got! Thou hast got more hair
    That I am dog-weary; but at last I spied
    Strength should be lord of imbecility,
  TITUS, when wert thou wont to walk alone,  
    Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
  VALENTINE. I was, and held me glad of such a doom.
    But yet to me they are strong. The Queen his mother
ACT V. SCENE I.
  Lady Montague, wife to Montague.
    To add the death of you.
    Patroclus' wounds have rous'd his drowsy blood,
    Good lady!
    With his unkindness? Say't be so?
  SICINIUS. You are at point to lose your liberties.
    most falliable, the worm's an odd worm.
    So, let her rest. And, madam, list to me,
  SOMERSET. O monstrous traitor! I arrest thee, York,
    Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven;
    Is he pardon'd; and for your lovely sake,
    I keep a servant feed. I will tomorrow,

    Nor knew not what she did when she spoke to me;
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Well have you argued, sir; and, for your pains,
    Where money is; and I no question make
                Thorough flood, thorough fire,
    warranted need, give him a better proclamation. Let him be but
  PANDARUS. Here, here, here he comes. Ah, sweet ducks!
    And not endure all threats? Sleep upon't,
    Arrest them to the answer of the law;
    That he does weigh too light. My greatest grief,
    his pocket? The wounds become him.
    What shall be done, sir, with the groaning Juliet?

    To give great Charlemain a pen in's hand
    She puts her tongue a little in her heart
    Beguiles the truer office of mine eyes?
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
Enter the KING, BEDFORD, and GLOUCESTER
  ALONSO. I prithee, spare.
    May counterpoise this rich and precious gift?
    How calm and gentle I proceeded still
    Calls virtue hypocrite; takes off the rose
  Kent. No, my lord.
  And only herald to the gaudy spring,
    Here shall I die ashore-

    You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
    Beg pardon of the Prince, and call thee back
  Like as to make our appetite more keen
    quit you with gud leve, as I may pick occasion; that sall I,
    To bathe in fiery floods or to reside  
    Which the brain makes of fumes. Our very eyes
    be lam'd with reasons and the other mad without any.
  OBERON. Thou seest these lovers seek a place to fight.
     When the rash mood is on.
    Makes way, and run like swallows o'er the plain.
    Therefore we will disperse ourselves. Farewell.
    Here comes Baptista. Set your countenance, sir.
    man's heart good to hear me; I will roar that I will make the

    I will withdraw; but this intrusion shall,
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Your Graces find me here part of housewife;
    And so am I for Phebe.
  ANTONIO, his brother, the usurping Duke of Milan
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>


  Lear. No more of that; I have noted it well. Go you and tell my
    That presently you take your way for home,
    Who, inward search'd, have livers white as milk!
  GLOUCESTER. Madam, the King is old enough himself
    Yourself, your queen, your son.  
     Those pelican daughters.
THE END
    Proffers not took reap thanks for their reward.
  PHEBE. Youth, you have done me much ungentleness
    That thou provok'st thyself to cast him up.

  HOSTESS. Prithee, honey-sweet husband, let me bring thee to
    But by your voices will not so permit me;
  Claud. Another Hero!
    bear you the lanthorn. This is your charge: you shall comprehend
    Know thine own meaning, but wouldst gabble like
    The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl.
    In pain of your dislike or pain of death,
    Mistress Ford, and requests your company.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. And did not she herself revile me there?
    and offered them his throat to cut. An had been a man of any
  ULYSSES. They are oppos'd already.
    All the best men are ours; for 'tis ill hap
    Put but a little water in a spoon
    But fetter you till death.
      of Masham.
    When we do quicken. Desdemona comes:
  When I desir'd him to come home to dinner,
    If souls guide vows, if vows be sanctimonies,
    Your first is dead- or 'twere as good he were
    renowned French physician.
    As captain shall. Simply the thing I am

  CANIDIUS, Lieutenant-General to Antony
  We in your motion turn, and you may move us.
    England shall give him office, honour, might;
  LAUNCE. And thereof comes the proverb: Blessing of your heart, you
  PANDARUS. Ay, to the leavening; but here's yet in the word
                                                    [He] sleeps.
    Might with a sally of the very town
Without the Florentine camp
    Are with a most indissoluble tie
    And at thy mercy shall they stoop and kneel,
    The father rashly slaughter'd his own son,
    your master?
    One drop of Christian blood, thy lands and goods
    Whate'er Lord Harry Percy then had said
    Which he corrects, then were he tyrannous;
  TITUS. Why, there it goes! God give his lordship joy!
    Go with me; if you like upon report
    Things known betwixt us three, I'll write you down;
  EMILIA.                          I will not.
     GAUNT, BUSHY, BAGOT, GREEN, and others. When they are set,
    Six score fat oxen standing in my stalls,
    Not your demand; it values not your asking.
    My lord, I see you're moved.
  TIMON. Wherefore?
    Repurchas'd with the blood of enemies.
  SLENDER. I may quarter, coz.
  OCTAVIA. Sir, look well to my husband's house; and-
    Being so father'd and so husbanded?
    March gently on to meet him.
  GENTLEMAN. Not indeed.
    So gain'd the sur-addition Leonatus;

    me, I hear the parson is no jester. Hark, I will tell you
    One sudden foil shall never breed distrust
    Took odds to combat a poor famish'd man.
  PANDARUS. Would I were as deep under the earth as I am above!
    But that there is this jewel in the world
    And then to Calais; and to England then;
                       SONG
    So out of thought, and thereto so o'ergrown,
  AUDREY. I do not know what 'poetical' is. Is it honest in deed and
    I saw her hand; she has a leathern hand,
    Induc'd by potent circumstances, that

    Nor to comply with heat- the young affects
    As mines of India. Shall I tell you, cousin?

  Hor. Well, my lord.
  Mine eyes have drawn thy shape, and thine for me
  VARRO'S SERVANT. One Varro's servant, my good lord-
    Surprise me to the very brink of tears.  
    The low Posthumus slanders so her judgment
  VINCENTIO. Art thou his father?
    Why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes?
     To't, luxury, pell-mell! for I lack soldiers.
    And thereupon he sends you this good news,
SCENE 4.
    a chough; but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt.  

  TALBOT. Fly to revenge my death, if I be slain.
    Can send his brother; and, but infirmity,
    And what you do, do it unfeignedly.
  PAROLLES. Why, do you not know him?

  BRUTUS. Are yet two Romans living such as these?
    Consenting to the safeguard of your honour,

    Come, my Hippolyta; what cheer, my love?
  CHAMBERLAIN. Sweet ladies, will it please you sit? Sir Harry,
    Disgrac'd me in my happy victories,
    Dreaming on both; for all thy blessed youth
    To conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes
    Resembling majesty, which, being touch'd and tried,
    The conquerors can but make a fire of him;
  Ham. Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play to-morrow.
     home; there's part of a power already footed; we must incline to
  Queen. Bestow this place on us a little while.
    Ipswich and Oxford! One of which fell with him,
                     100
    Who Pyramus presented, in their sport
  Vint. What, stand'st thou still, and hear'st such a calling? Look
    Termagant. It out-herods Herod. Pray you avoid it.
  Claud. Marry, that can Hero!
  MAN. What would you have me do?
  MRS. FORD. O sweet Sir John!
  MACDUFF. Was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed,
    Glance at my credit with Hippolyta,
  FIRST LORD. Beseech your Highness, give us better credit.
    Will do's commission throughly; and I think
    Were you but riding forth to air yourself,
    Richly in two short hours. Only they
    Mercy on me! I have a great dispositions to cry.     [Sings]

    The rich advantage of good exercise?
    most bravely. I'll tell you them all by their names as they pass
    As slippery as the Gordian knot was hard!
  ALL. O heavens forfend!
    For my poor son.
  ACHILLES. I shall forestall thee, Lord Ulysses, thou!

    Stand by, a looker-on.
    I would not have you, lord, forget yourself,

  KING EDWARD. Then be it as you will; for 'tis my right,
    Scarce blood enough in all their sickly veins
    Cry out 'Olivia!' O, you should not rest
  WOLSEY. He tells you rightly.
  CARDINAL. If thou be'st Death I'll give thee England's treasure,
    morrow, Ajax'; and he replies 'Thanks, Agamemnon.' What think you
    To make against your Highness' claim to France
    The story that is printed in her blood?
    To have her love, provided that your fortune  
                                     Exeunt heralds with MONTJOY
    That paper in your hand?
  OTHELLO. What, not a whore?
  FOURTH CITIZEN. Now mark him, he begins again to speak.
  YORK. Henry of Lancaster, resign thy crown.

    The flesh-fly blow my mouth. Hear my soul speak:  
                 Enter WARWICK; CLIFFORD flies
    Here will I stand till Caesar pass along,
              Enter ACHILLES and his Myrmidons
  BOTTOM. Peter Quince!
  The guilty goddess of my harmful deeds,
    he be there again? In my house I am sure he is; my
    Great Master of France, the brave Sir Guichard Dolphin;
  EVANS. Seven hundred pounds, and possibilities, is goot gifts.  
    I' the shipman's card.  
    Than in Lord Angelo.
  TIMON. Well mock'd.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  PATROCLUS
    The cordial of mine age to glad my heart!
  Doug. You give him then advantage.
                     Enter the DUKE OF YORK
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Think on my words.                   Exeunt QUEEN and LADIES
    Consider what you first did swear unto:
  SON. And be all traitors that do so?
  SECOND LORD. Peace, ho! No outrage- peace!  
    To wreak the love I bore my cousin Tybalt
    And dash'd the brains out had I so sworn as you
  ADRIAN. Though this island seem to be desert-  
    Send thy brass voice through all these lazy tents;
                           Regan, Servants.

    Nothing but that; move still, still so,
    shut out?
    Clerk-like experienc'd, which no less adorns
                         Enter BUCKINGHAM
    That, in the working of your own affections,
  CRESSIDA. I'll tell you what-
    Persons in the Induction
    And then I ran away to call the watch.

  Edg. How long have you been a sectary astronomical?
    Sure there's some wonder in this handkerchief;
  IAGO. Why, go to bed and sleep.
    with their fine wits till I were as crestfall'n as a dried pear.
  CASSIUS. But what of Cicero? Shall we sound him?
  IAGO. Yours, by this hand. And to see how he prizes the foolish
  Rise resty Muse, my love's sweet face survey,
    For we shall presently have need of you.
  BASSANIO. The dearest friend to me, the kindest man,
     He that conceals him, death.
    Puppies!
  SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  She's beautiful, and therefore to be woo'd;
    In supplication nod; and my young boy  
    And heavy-gaited toads, lie in their way,
    and sowl the porter of Rome gates by th' ears; he will mow all
     wheel runs down a hill, lest it break thy neck with following
  Die to themselves. Sweet roses do not so,
  BERTRAM. Yes, I do know him well; and common speech
    Evades them, with a bumbast circumstance
     Your most dear daughter-
         Sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell:

     And when I have stol'n upon these sons-in-law,
    And thereupon give me your daughter.
              Re-enter a SERVANT with THYREUS
and a Cardinal's hat; then two PRIESTS, bearing each silver cross;
    A grave? O, no, a lanthorn, slaught'red youth,
    Should yield the world this ass! A woman that
    is: it is something of my negligence, nothing of my purpose.
  SALISBURY. Talbot, my life, my joy, again return'd!
    Richard yet lives, hell's black intelligencer;
ill venture it come unluckily home, I break, and you, my gentle
  ELINOR. Thou unadvised scold, I can produce
    Hath given the dare to Caesar, and commands  

  QUEEN. All the better. May
    Could such inordinate and low desires,

    And this our life, exempt from public haunt,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. The thickest and the tallest.

    O, if thine eye be not a flatterer,
    Be to thy person, noble father-in-law!
  North. He was; I heard the proclamation.

    Till famine cling thee; if thy speech be sooth,
    Farewell, sweet playfellow; pray thou for us,
  VOLUMNIA. True! pow, waw.
    By deed-achieving honour newly nam'd-
    No, by my soul. I never in my life
     Draw, you rogue, or I'll so carbonado your shanks! Draw, you
  IMOGEN. All's well, sir; take my pow'r i' th' court for yours.
    Bring you the maid, you shall not lack a priest.
    It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity
  HERMIONE. There's some ill planet reigns.
  YOUNG CLIFFORD, his son
  SIR TOBY. I Will do so. Signior Fabian, stay you by this gentleman

    And like thy brother, to enjoy thy land,

    Where is Malvolio?
    seem to know, is to know straight our purpose: choughs' language,
  But shoot not at me in your wakened hate:
    now, his reputation is as arrant a villain and a Jacksauce as

Enter DUKE HUMPHREY and his men, in mourning cloaks
    And must for aye consort with black-brow'd night.
  MORTIMER. That cause, fair nephew, that imprison'd me
  DORCAS,        "
     Does lecher in my sight.
    Which obloquy set bars before my tongue,
    eyes. Prithee no more!

  ELINOR. Out, insolent! Thy bastard shall be king,
  HELENA. Pardon, madam.
  LADY GREY. Be pitiful, dread lord, and grant it, then.
    A banish'd woman from my Harry's bed,
    chandler's in Europe. I have maintained that salamander of yours  
  YORK. Alencon, that notorious Machiavel!  
    In this time of the night? Bring him away;
    I conjure thee, by all the parts of man

            Curtsied when you have and kiss'd,
  TOUCHSTONE. He, sir, that must marry this woman. Therefore, you
  HECTOR. You are amaz'd, my liege, at her exclaim.
            Whether that thy youth and kind
    Over thy wounds now do I prophesy
    That so I harried him. Why, methinks, by him,
    join not in a hot day; for, by the Lord, I take but two shirts
    That what they do delay they not deny.

    doing good a remedy presents itself. I do make myself believe
    The next news is, I have to London sent
  ROBIN. My Master Sir John is come in at your back-door,
    at midnight? Fie, fie! he'll never come!
    honourable in a beggar? Is not your lord honourable without
    But, lords, we hear this fearful tempest sing,
  Or made them swear against the thing they see.

  ANNE. So much the more
    villains march wide betwixt the legs, as if they had gyves on;
  Thus far for love, my love-suit sweet fulfil.
  And supplicant their sighs to your extend,
  BOYET. Ay, my continent of beauty.
    rather shunn'd to go even with what I heard than in my every
    An hour but married, Tybalt murdered,
    As one being best acquainted with her humour.
    And shakes his head and trembling stands aloof,
  Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving,
    Therefore we meet not now. Then let me hear
ACT IV. Scene I.
    were desolation of gaolers and gallowses! I speak against my
    Venice.
    As here by Caesar, and by you cut off,
                 Enter Beatrice.
    And, in the spiced Indian air, by night,

    man!
    Wives may be merry and yet honest too.

    Wherein I see myself-
  YORK. Richard, enough; I will be King, or die.
                             Exeunt DUKE, MAGNIFICOES, and train
    What I can do I will; and more I will

  Clown. Why, because 'a was mad. 'A shall recover his wits there;

    pest'red with such water-flies-diminutives of nature!
    Help Salisbury to make his testament.
    By that sin fell the angels. How can man then,
  FIRST LORD. He's but a mad lord, and nought but humours sways him.
  HELENA. Sir, I have seen you in the court of France.

     Remain this ample third of our fair kingdom,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. May he not do it by fine and recovery?
     But to the girdle do the gods inherit,
                                [Embrace, and part several ways]  
  GRUMIO. She was, good Curtis, before this frost; but thou know'st
  WARWICK. He's walk'd the way of nature;
    Whose tongue more poisons than the adder's tooth!
  TIMON. Contain thyself, good friend.
    Is wise and virtuous, and his noble queen
     Whiles thou, a moral fool, sit'st still, and criest
  For thou art all, and all things else are thine.
    Thus far into the bowels of the land
    abide looking on.
    Of will and judgment: how may I avoid,
Scene III.
  QUICKLY. Alas the day, good heart, that was not her fault!
    'you are an honest woman and well thought on, therefore take heed
    To show how quaint an orator you are.
    She is an heir of Falconbridge.
  TIMON. As thine is now, held with a brace of harlots.
    Or hand of man hath done; therefore I keep it
my body to your mercies. Bate me some, and I will pay you some, and,
    Yet are these feet, whose strengthless stay is numb,
    against them.
    now, Mistress Doll!
  My wife is shrewish when I keep not hours.
    The true succeeders of each royal house,
  FIRST LORD. You do not know him, my lord, as we do. Certain it is  
  BEDFORD. Not to be gone from hence; for once I read  
    And Cytherea all in sedges hid,
               Enter DEMETRIUS and HELENA, running
ADRIANA. And in assemblies too.
    And twelve tight galleys. These I will assure her,
    Not by the title. She is young, wise, fair;
  AMBASSADOR. Thus then, in few.
    Throw this report on their incensed rage
    Except it be to pray against thy foes.
  PANDARUS. Friend, you-pray you, a word. Do you not follow the young
    My friends of noble touch; when I am forth,
    When he had carried Rome and that we look'd
  TROILUS. Shall I, sweet lord, be bound to you so much,
     To come between our sentence and our power,-
  BEROWNE. Once to behold, rogue.

  FORD. Sir John Falstaff!
    Against the blown rose may they stop their nose
    Subject his coronet to his crown, and bend
  TITUS. If they did kill thy husband, then be joyful,
    To take that course by your consent and voice
    If he were putting to my house the brand
    awak'd him, as if to carry him to execution, and show'd him a
  CELIA. Why, cousin! why, Rosalind! Cupid have mercy!
    To our confusion.
    To dwell in solemn shades of endless night.
    Your tongue, though but bastards and syllables
    thou shouldst neither want my means for thy relief nor my voice
    I should have begg'd I might have been employ'd.

    Money and order for their furniture.
Enter BOLINGBROKE, YORK, NORTHUMBERLAND, PERCY, ROSS, WILLOUGHBY,
    How he her chamber window will ascend
              There dwelt a man in Babylon,
  LODOVICO. My lord, this would not be believed in Venice,

  PAGE. No, nor nowhere else but in your brain.
    But nature makes that mean; so over that art
  And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
  AUTOLYCUS. I will prove so, sir, to my power.
    dreadfully attended. But in the beaten way of friendship, what
    who 'tis I love; and yet 'tis a woman; but what woman I will not
  KING PHILIP. You loving men of Angiers, Arthur's subjects,
    All souls that will be safe, fly from my side;
              Exeunt Lear, Gloucester, Kent, and Fool. Storm and
    name was Antigonus, a nobleman! But to make an end of the ship-
    And even that falsehood, in itself a sin,
    leave; and there is a forerunner come from a fifth, the Prince of
    Either for such men or such business.

    Than savages could suffer. Thou didst drink
    We must follow the leaders.
    Made me a counterfeit; yet my mother seem'd
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Who dares not stir by day must walk by night;
    Enfeoff'd himself to popularity;
    Clean over-blown, themselves the conquerors
    By heaven, we come to him in perfect love;
    There saw you labouring for him. What was't
  What with his art in youth, and youth in art,
     perceived a most faint neglect of late, which I have rather
                                                   Exit with CRESSIDA
    Or seek for rule, supremacy, and sway,
             Warr'st thou with a woman's heart?'

  PAROLLES.  [Aside]  I'll no more drumming. A plague of all drums!
    Shall witness I set forth as soon as you,
    Are empty trunks, o'erflourish'd by the devil.
A room in Leonato's house.
    Diana's rangers false themselves, yield up
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    For they breathe truth that breathe their words -in pain.
    Fronting the sun, receives and renders back
     All my reports go with the modest truth;
    the boy:
    Which death, or absence, soon shall remedy.
  ORLANDO. Ready, sir; but his will hath in it a more modest working.
    Perpend.
  ENOBARBUS. Now he'll outstare the lightning. To be furious
  LUCENTIO. Gramercies, lad. Go forward; this contents;
    By circumstance to accuse thy cursed self.
  Bora. Two of them did, the Prince and Claudio; but the devil my
    what shame else belongs to't. To him will I present them. There
    The very minute bids thee ope thine ear.
Enter CLOTEN and two LORDS

    That we meet here so strangely; but her son
    Voice, gait, and action, of a gentlewoman;
    Even then when they sit idly in the sun.
     Stop, stop! No help?
    If not complete of, say he is not she;
    To ling'ring sufferance. Answer me to-morrow,

    And as she fled, her mantle she did fall;
  TITANIA. I have a venturous fairy that shall seek
  CASSIO. How now, my sweet Bianca! how now! how now!
    Made hard with kneeling, I do pray to thee,
    But, if my father had not scanted me,
    My gracious sovereign, my most loving liege!
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF YORK, the young DUKE OF YORK, QUEEN ELIZABETH,
    I believe I know the cause of his withdrawing.
  COUNTESS. I prithee, lady, have a better cheer;

    For what, alas, can these my single arms?
    The pretty follies that themselves commit,
    Bestow'd his lips on that unworthy place,
    T'attend your Highness' pleasure.
    That touches Caesar nearer. Read it, great Caesar.
  PETRUCHIO. Women are made to bear, and so are you.
  OXFORD. For my part, I'll not trouble thee with words.
  JULIA. Well, let us go.
    Or, keeping what is sworn, you will prove fools.
SCENE V.
    I give to both your speeches- which were such
    And given way unto this course of fortune,
  MARIANA. He's shrewdly vex'd at something.
    Since they, so few, watch such a multitude.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. O, sir, upon her nose, an o'er embellished with
    Speak softly, or the loss of those great towns
    Through whom a thousand sighs are breath'd for thee!
    They may, cum privilegio, wear away
  POSTHUMUS. Spare your arithmetic; never count the turns.
    As he is proud to do't.  
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. No; I say nay to that.
  CASSIUS. As they pass by, pluck Casca by the sleeve,
  HELENA. Perchance he's hurt i' th' battle.
    Kiss it, my warrior- he hath fought to-day

    And climb the highest promontory top.
  ROSALIND. Why, whither shall we go?
    I kill'd a man, and fear I was descried.  
    He cares not for your weeping. Speak thou, boy;
    truer than Troilus.  
  King. How may we try it further?
    Much weightier than this work. The Queen's in labour,
  FLUELLEN. Eat, I pray you; will you have some more sauce to your
  TITUS. Kill'd her for whom my tears have made me blind.
  CAESAR. O Antony,
    be conceal'd awhile.
    As true thou tell'st me, when I say I love her;
  BEROWNE. See where it comes! Behaviour, what wert thou

  And swear that brightness doth not grace the day?
    We few, we happy few, we band of brothers;
    And may not wear them. O, here comes my nurse,
    Come to our tent till we have done our conference.
    Were I alone to pass the difficulties,
    him? Shall I put him into the basket again?
    Under your great command. You are to know
  PRINCE HUMPHREY. I think he's gone to hunt, my lord, at Windsor.
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM
  KING RICHARD. Fiend, thou torments me ere I come to hell.

  CHIRON. Tell us, old man, how shall we be employ'd?
    Hear no more of you. This the Dauphin speaks.
  LORDS. We can. My royal liege,  
  GLOUCESTER. That it may please you leave these sad designs
    Save that Euriphile must be Fidele.
    Yet do thy cheeks look red as Titan's face  
    We will, fair Queen, up to the mountain's top,
                 Tell me where is fancy bred,
  HOLOFERNES. What is the figure? What is the figure?  
    Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
    The elder of them being put to nurse,
    If underneath the standard of the French
    The King shall do it. Must he be depos'd?  
    And now worth nothing? Shall I have the thought  
    Imagine howling- 'tis too horrible.
    knowledge!
     challenge; mark but the penning of it.
    The sacred honour of himself, his Queen's,
                  Enter another Messenger.
    My noble father, Henry of Buckingham,
                             Enter SHYLOCK
    As air, as water, wind, or sandy earth,

    The spite of man prevaileth against me. O Lord, have mercy upon
  Dog. Truly, I would not hang a dog by my will, much more a man who
        And deny himself for Jove,
    seigneur d'Angleterre.

                                          [He stabs the EMPRESS]  
    For God doth know, and you may partly see,
    Draws out our miles, and makes them wearisome;
    You pity not the state, nor the remembrance
  JEWELLER. We'll bear, with your lordship.
    And lead these testy rivals so astray
    And such a welcome as I'd give to him
    The other half comes to the general state,
    sprites and fires!
   Of his true tides to some certain dukedoms,
    Tokens and letters which she did re-send;
    To penetrative shame, whilst the wheel'd seat
    Sought to entrap me by intelligence;
    And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
  Laer. Drown'd! O, where?

    The time and my intents are savage-wild,
    Like the old age.
    Poor key-cold figure of a holy king!
          Enter the GHOST of LADY ANNE, his wife
    Bring up his powers; but he did long in vain.
    And princes' courts be fill'd with my reproach.
Inverness. Court of Macbeth's castle.
    My Lord Berowne, see him delivered o'er;
      sight?
  LADY MACBETH. Who was it that thus cried? Why, worthy Thane,  
                      [In this mutiny the TRIBUNES, the AEDILES,
    But from her need.
  CLEOPATRA. Widow? Charmian, hark!
    'em?
Scene V.

    Join'd with Aufidius, leads a power 'gainst Rome,
    Frenchmen, I'll be a Salisbury to you.
    And cannot brook competitors in love?
    thank you for your honest care. I will speak with you further
    My nephew Mutius' deeds do plead for him;
    And sent the ragged soldiers wounded home.
    Away to heaven respective lenity,
    That my disports corrupt and taint my business,
    Nor when she purposes return. Beseech your Highness,  
  CASSIO. I marry her! What? A customer! I prithee, bear some charity
    The gaoler to his pity. I kneel'd before him;
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    business.
Dramatis Personae
    Loves for his own ends, not for you.
Be it known to you, as it is very well, I was lately here in the end
    consolation: your old smock brings forth a new petticoat; and
    in the boorish is company- of this female- which in the common is
    'Twixt this and supper. Go not my horse the better,
    What say'st thou? Hast thou not a word of joy?
    from the house I owe?
  KING RICHARD. Stir with the lark to-morrow, gentle Norfolk.
    anything for the intelligence of this whore; the parrot will not

    What further you will do.
    the King's sake, he were living! I think it would be the death of
    Speak not for him.                                    Exeunt

    My very heart at root.
     (More harder than the stones whereof 'tis rais'd,
    judge of my merit.
  ARCHBISHOP. For what offence?
    As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
  BOYET. Why, that contempt will kill the speaker's heart,  
  DUKE. Boldly, at least. But, O, poor souls,
    For do but note a wild and wanton herd,
    That granted, how canst thou believe an oath?
    And say poor Margaret was a prophetess!
  BOATSWAIN. Heigh, my hearts! cheerly, cheerly, my hearts!
  ARCHBISHOP. Believe me, I am passing light in spirit.
    For every minute is expectancy
  BOLINGBROKE. Bring forth these men.


    And melancholy is the nurse of frenzy.
  The pleasing punishment that women bear,
THE TEMPEST
    Which teacheth thee that thou and I am one.
    any question.
    I'll use you for my mirth, yea, for my laughter,

    Half won is match well made; match, and well make it;
    Kill Brutus, and be honor'd in his death.
    What! shall I be appointed hours, as though, belike,
  AUDREY. I do desire it with all my heart; and I hope it is no
  MACBETH. Ay, in the catalogue ye go for men,
    in the figure of a lamb the feats of a lion. He hath indeed
    That look into me with considerate eyes.
    That is Antonio, the Duke's eldest son;
  John. Fie, fie! they are not to be nam'd, my lord--
    That we do make our entrance several ways;
     Not to be overrul'd. Idle old man,  
  BIANCA.  [Reads]
THE TRAGEDY OF OTHELLO, MOOR OF VENICE
      And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
    Divide in all with us.                                Exeunt
    What since thou swor'st is sworn against thyself
    Which I so lively acted with my tears
    Cotus!                                                  Exit
    Whereto my finger, like a dial's point,
    enjoying of thy life, who I would be sorry should be thus
  CAESAR. Approach, and speak.
    Your crown and kingdom, indirectly held
    Hold up before him?
  Glou. Sir, this young fellow's mother could; whereupon she grew
  That in my mind thy worst all best exceeds?
    You bid me seek redemption of the devil!
  SECOND SENATOR. What thou wilt,

  SECOND PETITIONER. Marry, the Lord protect him, for he's a good
    You shall yourself read in the bitter letter
    Stabb'd Julius Caesar; savage islanders
  Sweet recreation barr'd, what doth ensue

  LAFEU. Do all they deny her? An they were sons of mine I'd have
  TITANIA. Come now, a roundel and a fairy song;
    all my neighbours shall cry aim.  [Clock strikes]
France. Before Angiers
    He does deny him, in respect of his,
  Glou. Hearty thanks.
  ENOBARBUS. A certain queen to Caesar in a mattress.
    We come to speak with him; and you shall not sin
    answer. To-morrow morning are to die Claudio and Barnardine. Here
    and every man that means to live well endeavours to trust
    Unhous'led, disappointed, unanel'd,
    enough to go home. What shall I say I have done? It must be a
  QUINCE, a carpenter
    For thine own bowels which do call thee sire,
    But from her handmaid do return this answer:
  SPEED. Why, thou whoreson ass, thou mistak'st me.
                  Three merry men be we.
  KING. If this, or more than this, I would deny,
    you be by her aloft while we be busy below; and so I pray you go,
    But I do think it is their husbands' faults
    That I do hate thee and love Helena.
    John; very well said.
      Thy grace being gain'd cures all disgrace in me.
  Are vanishing, or vanished out of sight,
    profitably!
    Northampton, and in Leicestershire, shalt find
  ALL. God save the King! God save the King!
  POMPEY. I hope, sir, your good worship will be my bail.
    The General says you that have so traitorously discover'd the  
    To venge me as I may and to put forth
     I have to think so. If thou shouldst not be glad,
    We first survey the plot, then draw the model;
  Pedro. Gentlemen both, we will not wake your patience.
  HUBERT. Here is your hand and seal for what I did.  
    Which hitherto hath held my eyes from rest;
    Live scandaliz'd and foully spoken of.
  GLOUCESTER. So do I ever-  [Aside]  being well advis'd;
  ARTHUR. Hubert, the utterance of a brace of tongues
  Ham. So be it!
    In this fair rescue thou hast brought to me.

    This dilatory sloth and tricks of Rome.
    Dauphin of France? Be it known unto thee by these presence, even
     That guard and most unusual vigilance

  How can it? O how can love's eye be true,  
    Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
    Are all thrown down; and that which here stands up
  AUTOLYCUS. A fellow, sir, that I have known to go about with
    By the name of most kind hostess, and shut up
  DUKE. Then let me see thy cloak.
    The penitent instrument to pick that bolt,
    Take up the body.
    And are the cities that I got with wounds
    You and your apron men; you that stood so much  
    Now, I fear thee not.
    A sweet Athenian lady is in love
    The nature of an insurrection.
  For precious friends hid in death's dateless night,

    married; but thou art too fine in thy evidence; therefore stand

  CASSIUS. And let us swear our resolution.  
                                           [with his Followers].
  ALICE. De chin.

     Though well we may not pass upon his life
    Unlooked on diest unless thou get a son.
    Your compensation makes amends; for
    A night is but small breath and little pause
    your wits than a fool.
Enter PARIS, TROILUS, AENEAS, DEIPHOBUS, ANTENOR, and DIOMEDES
    evil that they will not admit any good part to intermingle with
    Fear not thy sons; they shall do well enough.
    Would not infect his reason?
  TIMON. What, thyself?

by William Shakespeare

    Thy hope ends here!
    Of lords and ladies, having brought the Queen

    And men have lost their reason. Bear with me;
    use, any sword, weapon, or dagger, henceforward, upon
  BRUTUS. Then our office may
    If you'll avouch 'twas wisdom Paris went-
    So mix'd in him that Nature might stand up
             O Pyramus, arise,
  JULIA. 'To Julia'- Say, from whom?
    And in this resolution here we leave you.  
    While the beast liv'd was kill'd with hunting him.
    For night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast;
  BRUTUS. All tongues speak of him and the bleared sights
                                                [Laertes falls.]
                             Enter Lear.
    clown, abandon- which is in the vulgar leave- the society- which
    name and fame with the very best. Shut the door. There comes no  
    If we do meet again, we'll smile indeed;
    She is so self-endeared.

      Enter PORTIA for BALTHAZAR, dressed like a Doctor of Laws
           Journeys end in lovers meeting,
  Con. No; 'twas the vane on the house.
    horse better than the Neapolitan's, a better bad habit of
    And like Limander am I trusty still.
    To trust us in your business, we are ready


    Hold up thy hand, make signal of thy hope.
    Will turn into a peaceful comic sport,
    With Cassio's suit. Therefore be merry, Cassio,
  Gave healthful welcome to their ship-wreck'd guests,
  VIOLA. I do assure you 'tis against my will.
  KING. Deliver this with modesty to th' Queen.
    As glorious to this night, being o'er my head,
    But what at full I know, thou know'st no part;
  POSTHUMUS. Their tenour good, I trust.
  Mad slanderers by mad ears believed be.
  DUKE. It is not my consent,
  CYMBELINE. She alone knew this;
    That greatness should so grossly offer it.  
                                           [Nurse] calls within.
    Her wagoner, a small grey-coated gnat,
    back again to my mother.
    Once more well met at Cyprus.
                        Enter Juliet.
  SIWARD. Had he his hurts before?
    The story of your loves discovered.

  Ver. To thirty thousand.
    jealousy? My wife hath sent to him; the hour is fix'd;
    O Warwick, Warwick! I foresee with grief
    Edward thy son, that now is Prince of Wales,
    Persuade him that he hath been lunatic,
    a capon, the which if I do not carve most curiously, say my
    Which way to be prevented, if to be;

    O God, which this blood mad'st, revenge his death!
    have not enough considered- as too much I cannot- to be more
    With odd old ends stol'n forth of holy writ,
    Grace and good disposition attend your ladyship!

    And well deserv'd. Not helping, death's my fee;
  ROSALIND. And your experience makes you sad. I had rather have a
  FIRST SOLDIER. Nay, I'll read it first by your favour.
  SHYLOCK. Yes, to smell pork, to eat of the habitation which your
    well, bully Hector?
  CLARENCE. Thy voice is thunder, but thy looks are humble.  
    Where, in a frenzy, in my master's garments,
    world for your labor, 'tis a wrong in your own world, and you
    The gunner, and his mate,

  Tyb. It fits when such a villain is a guest.
  MENENIUS. Not now, not now.
    Herself hath taught her love himself to write unto her lover.'
    Sent his poor queen to France, from whence she came.
    Why, every fault's condemn'd ere it be done;
    Alencon, Reignier, compass him about,

DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS

    imaginations of your own heart; this is jealousies.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. The one, to save the money that he spends in
    of his mistress; your diet shall be in all places alike. Make not
    Nor is not mov'd with concord of sweet sounds,
  YOUNG MARCIUS, son to Coriolanus
    That dwell in every region of his face;
    wenches, that would be betrayed without these; and make them men
    have the patience to hear it.
    state and usurp the beggary he was never born to. Lord Angelo
         'You that choose not by the view,
    gentlemen.            Exeunt all but MRS. FORD and MRS. PAGE
      But do not love thyself; then thou wilt keep  
                                    Exeunt REIGNIER and MARGARET
    Which I hope well is not enrolled there;
    He offers in another's enterprise;
    and term, and then they perceive not how Time moves.
    Thus with his speechless hand. What he would do,

  DESDEMONA. My lord, what is your will?
  FLAMINIUS. [Within] Servilius, help! My lord! my lord!
    Conceive when, after many moody thoughts,
    I would not change it.
  EARL OF WESTMORELAND
  That better is, by evil still made better.
  GLOUCESTER. How fares our cousin, noble Lord of York?
    Bear his betroth'd from all the world away.
  AUMERLE. Where is the Duke my father with his power?
Scene IV.
  1. Mus. Not a dump we! 'Tis no time to play now.
    But you shall bear the burthen soon at night.
    know not what; but he at that time over-fond of the shepherd's
  VOLUMNIA. Honourable Menenius, my boy Marcius approaches; for the
  COMINIUS. The people are abus'd; set on. This palt'ring
    To th' bottom of the worst. Let Helen go.  
  AUFIDIUS. I understand thee well; and be thou sure,
    Some proper man, I hope. Who was it, mother?
    Come, Proteus, 'tis your penance but to hear
  Peter, servant to Juliet's nurse.
  HUBERT. 'Tis not an hour since I left him well.
  KING. How well this yielding rescues thee from shame!

    Not what he knew I was. He makes me angry;
            Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
  QUEEN. I am very glad on't.
    For your fair safety. So, I kiss your hand.
    As notes whose faculties inclusive were
    In pleasing smiles such murderous tyranny.

    Upon the sightless couriers of the air,
    I am an honest man's wife, and, setting thy knight-hood aside,
  OLIVIA. Why, what would you?
    Should seek a plaster by contemn'd revolt,
SCENE 4
    English John Talbot, Captains, calls you forth,
    For though it have holp madmen to their wits,
  MRS. FORD. I would my husband would meet him in this
    The image of the King whom I presented,
  BULLCALF. Good Master Corporate Bardolph, stand my friend; and  
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    From son to son some four or five descents
    The anvil of my sword, and do contest
    Ah, gentle Clifford, kill me with thy sword,
  Marg. And God keep him out of my sight when the dance is done!
  PUCELLE. You are deceiv'd; my child is none of his:
 Exit
  O 'tis the first, 'tis flattery in my seeing,
  Kent. I had rather break mine own. Good my lord, enter.
    He being her pupil, to become her tutor.
    To give them this discomfort? Look, they weep;
    Upon thy promising fortune.
    My present fancies.
    Come up to th' truth. So have we thought it good
    Endue you with the people's voice. Remains
  KING HENRY. Well then, the peace,
  SIMPCOX. Alas, master, I am not able to stand alone!
         "A re" to plead Hortensio's passion-
    to go to the world, Isbel the woman and I will do as we may.
  KING HENRY. Here, uncle Exeter, fill this glove with crowns,
    I am one of those. His mother, wife, his child,
    the Count, I am sick, or not at home- what you will to dismiss
    business?
    Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow,
    is tears for his love, joy for his fortune, honor for his valor,
  HORTENSIO. Mates, maid! How mean you that? No mates for you,
    Which God shall guard; and put the world's whole strength
  SECOND COMMONER. Truly, sir, to wear out their shoes to get myself
  PORTIA. Then you shall be his surety. Give him this,
  CRESSIDA. At your pleasure.
  TITUS. What, villain boy!  
    You have a father able to maintain you,
  PANDARUS. She's making her ready, she'll come straight; you must be
  SOMERSET. By Him that made me, I'll maintain my words
  DUKE. Nay then, no matter; stay with me awhile;
    Then give me welcome, next my heaven the best,
    Thou strik'st not me; 'tis Caesar thou defeat'st.
    I wish you all the joy that you can wish,
    That, Talbot dead, great York might bear the name.
    As my true service shall deserve your love.
    he is very courageous mad about his throwing into the
    Yet must we join with him and with the lords,
   And make imaginary puissance;
    That died by law for murder of our brother
                            Enter Emilia.
  MRS. PAGE. On my word, it will serve him; she's as big as he
    And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
    Enter the conspirators, Cassius, Casca, Decius, Cinna,
    The Duke comes home to-morrow. Nay, dry your eyes.
  Art left the prey of every vulgar thief.  
  MRS. PAGE. Why, then, you are utterly sham'd, and he's but
    My Lord Protector's hawks do tow'r so well;
    Against thy entrance.

    Two Cliffords, as the father and the son;
  GLOUCESTER. I'll hear no more. Die, prophet, in thy speech.
     I am sure of that; and at her late being here
    Cannot remove nor choke the strong conception
  ALL THE GOTHS. And as he saith, so say we all with him.
    Have cost a mass of public treasury.  
    A hundred thousand more, in surety of the which,
  YORK. Break thou in pieces and consume to ashes,  
    Wilt thou destroy him then?
    seen with her in the manor-house, sitting with her upon the form,
    As Owen Glendower for an enemy.
  LYSANDER. Ay, by my life!
    As by discharge of their artillery
                    Enter Beatrice.
  LONGAVILLE. I must rather give it the rein, for it runs against
    I'll nothing do on charge: to her own worth

    Our true intent is. All for your delight
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    When dying clouds contend with growing light,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Villain, thou liest; for even her very words
  CAIUS. Ay, dat is very good! excellent!
    Farewell, my liege. Now no way can I stray:
    To her decrepit, sick, and bedrid father;
    When there is in it but one only man.
    little for your thief, your true man thinks it big enough; if it
  THIRD SERVANT. Where's that?
    The malice towards you to forgive you. Live,
    have not seen a hulk better stuff'd in the hold. Come, I'll be
     Or whether gasted by the noise I made,
  TAMORA. Why should you fear? Is not your city strong?

    Steed threatens steed, in high and boastful neighs
   Leash'd in like hounds, should famine, sword, and fire,
    Make yourselves scabs?
    Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
    Of what we chance to sentence.

    fear the wolf will sooner find than the master. If any where I

    How now, Kate? I must leave you within these two hours.
    another to Page's wife, who even now gave me good eyes
    Why are we met in council?
    And this is he was his adopted heir.
  BASTARD. James Gurney, wilt thou give us leave awhile?
    Rather than bloody war shall cut them short,

    Fortune in favour makes him lag behind.
    Of comfort, kingdom, kindred, freedom, life.
    O, balmy breath, that dost almost persuade
  MRS. FORD. Why, none but mine own people.
    Of all the world I lov'd, and to him put
  Mess. I know none of that name, lady. There was none such in the
  For when we rage, advice is often seen
  For these, of force, must your oblations be,
    By thinking on the frosty Caucasus?
    The other four in wondrous motion.
    Nay, I have ta'en you napping, gentle love,
  OXFORD. Away, away, to meet the Queen's great power!
    exchange for rags?- robes, for tittles?- titles, for thyself?
Enter [at one door] Leonato and [at another door, Antonio] an old man,
    And call'd it Rugemount, at which name I started,
  LEONTES. Is whispering nothing?
    But let me hear from you.
    Yet lives our pilot still. Is't meet that he
  NATHANIEL. Where will you find men worthy enough to present them?

    And bitter shame hath spoil'd the sweet world's taste,  
    That angel of the world- doth make distinction
    Take this of me, Kate of my consolation-
    An oath that I have sworn. I will not break it.
    I beg the ancient privilege of Athens:
    As, deathsmen, you have rid this sweet young prince!
  VOLUMNIA. Indeed you shall not.
    as soundly swing'd for this- you blue-bottle rogue, you filthy
    Amongst the fair-fac'd breeders of our clime;
    To call upon him.
    Wilt lay the leaven on all proper men:
    More miserable by the life of thee
    in any constant question.
    O'er courtiers' knees, that dream on cursies straight;  

    and then it is the complexion of them all to leave the dam.
  PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER. Adieu, good Master Doctor.
    Thou has been rightly honest. So hast thou;

  Pedro. The sixth of July. Your loving friend, Benedick.
    Who neither looks upon the heaven nor earth,
    such insociable and point-devise companions; such rackers of  
    Had circumvention? 'Tis not four days gone

    sent for you.
  CRESSIDA. Good; and what of him?
            Re-enter LUCENTIO as CAMBIO, and BIONDELLO
    Unchain your spirits now with spelling charms,
    Or a half-moon made with a pen.
  Par. Sweet flower, with flowers thy bridal bed I strew
  CORIOLANUS. Though there the people had more absolute pow'r-
    more adhere and keep place together than the Hundredth
    Smarting in ling'ring pickle.
    forward to-night.
    No, not so much perdition as an hair
     She hath abated me of half my train;
  Mer. Yea, is the worst well? Very well took, i' faith! wisely,
    Get on your nightgown, lest occasion call us
    And comment then upon his sudden death.
    The foul witch Sycorax, who with age and envy
    I know no touch of consanguinity,
    Where on a sudden one hath wounded me
    Some men must love my lady, and some Joan.              Exit
  That tongue that tells the story of thy days,
    If any wretch have put this in your head,
    Curling their monstrous heads, and hanging them
    And 'tis not done. The attempt and not the deed
    That so degenerate a strain as this
    the wicked. I must give over this life, and I will give it over!
    With all my force, pursuit, and policy.
    Of modern seeming do prefer against him.
    more than the perfection of ten, and discharging less than the
    That have stood by and seen our wishes prosper  
    Plays in the right hand, thus; but tell him

  Glou. And that's true too.                             Exeunt.
  FERDINAND. A single thing, as I am now, that wonders
                                         [Tears at his clothes.]
  TRINCULO. A howling monster; a drunken monster!
    That she belov'd knows nought that knows not this:

  CORIOLANUS. My name is Caius Marcius, who hath done
     Stocking his messenger.
    For here the Troyans taste our dear'st repute
  COUNTESS. What have we here?
  MALVOLIO. At your request? Yes, nightingales answer daws!  
    As I can bid thee speak.
    I'll to the friar to know his remedy.
    Brought hither in a most unlucky hour,
    But I will tell you at some meeter season.
    Physic?
    Or else return no more into my sight.
    Or been reguerdon'd with so much as thanks,
    To lie in watch there, and to think on him?
    replication, or rather, ostentare, to show, as it were, his
    Who hath descried the number of the traitors?
    As I am woman- now alas the day!-
  LUCENTIO. I have it, Tranio.
    Come, let's away. When, Caius, Rome is thine,
    And never from this palace of dim night
    Your Highness shall repose you at the Tower,
    varlet. Now sit down, now sit down; come, cousin.
    She should have bought her dignities so dear.              Exeunt
  PLEBEIANS. Faith, we hear fearful news.
    Was it discretion, lords, to let this man,
  ISABELLA. When? I beseech you; that in his reprieve,
    And Prince shall follow with a fresh supply.
    stop them all. To be now a sensible man, by and by a fool, and
  SICINIUS. The very trick on 't.
    so. Three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy,

    The tutor and the feeder of my riots.
  ROSALIND. I would I were at home.
  COUNTESS. To me, blood-thirsty lord
    Myself your loyal servant, or endure
  To put fair truth upon so foul a face?
    As shore of rock. Attend: this holy fox,
    How little is the cost I have bestowed

  POLIXENES. A sickness caught of me, and yet I well?
    Therefore draw for the supportance of his vow; he protests he
    'No man must know.' If this should be thee, Malvolio?
    who chooses his meaning chooses you- will no doubt never be
  Rom. Nay, that's not so.
  LORD. Where was this lane?
  FEEBLE. I will do my good will, sir; you can have no more.

  KING RICHARD. And brief, good mother; for I am in haste.
  ROSALINE. I would you knew.
    with bran and water.
    Helenus. I think he went not forth to-day. That's Helenus.
    bear, slow as the elephant-a man into whom nature hath so crowded
    The Lord Northumberland, his son young Henry Percy,  

           Enter NERISSA dressed like a lawyer's clerk
    And for a minister of my intent
    This vault a feasting presence full of light.
  BUCKINGHAM. Nor no one here; for curses never pass
The DUKE OF GLOUCESTER'S house
  ALEXAS. We'll know all our fortunes.
    Help, help! Call help.
  CYMBELINE. O most delicate fiend!
    Bondage is hoarse and may not speak aloud;
  YORK. Sir john and Sir Hugh Mortimer, mine uncles!
  TWO GENTLEMEN of the same
    never shall come off, and show me a child begotten of thy body
    As cloudy men use to their adversaries,
            Enter ANTONY and SCARUS, with their army
    speaking to you.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  Kent. Good my lord, enter here.
Enter the LORD MARSHAL and the DUKE OF AUMERLE
  DESDEMONA. But while I say one prayer!
    And presently took post to tell it you.
    And with a kind of umber smirch my face;
  Which by and by black night doth take away,
    Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King.         Exit.
     By treason's tooth bare-gnawn and canker-bit.
    Fathers, from hence trust not your daughters' minds
  LEONTES. How blest am I

    her along with you, it may awake my bounty further.
Rousillon. The COUNT'S palace
    Thy foot to England's throne. And therefore mark:  
  YORK. The army of the Queen hath got the field.
  Chief Watch. A great suspicion! Stay the friar too.
    O'er-run and trampled on. Then what they do in present,
  QUEEN. Ay, good my lord; for purposely therefore  
  POLIXENES. This is the prettiest low-born lass that ever
  NESTOR.Who, Thersites?

DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Put in her tender heart th' aspiring flame  
  DUCHESS. I long with all my heart to see the Prince.
  CLIFFORD. What say ye, countrymen? Will ye relent
    I will o'ertake thee, Cleopatra, and

     Take her, or leave her?
    And ill beseeming any common man,
    That knit your sinews to the strength of mine.
  DIOMEDES. Whose was't?
    Thank me for this more than for all the favours
      Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must;
    For he would needs be virtuous: that good fellow,
    I should have been beholding to your paper.

    But with a noble fury and fair spirit,
    In face, in gait, in speech, he doth resemble.
  Gon. An interlude!
    And heartily entreats you take good comfort.
    I do refuse you for my judge and here,
  KING EDWARD. Huntsman, what say'st thou? Wilt thou go along?
     if there be any good meaning toward you. I have told you what I  
    And sent her enemies unto the grave.

              Fell bravely and were slain,
    Perform'd in this wide gap of time since first
    How now, fair maid?
    The most disdain'd of fortune.
    And therefore, in mine opinion, cannot have it.
    Boy!

    I'll set her on;
  SPIRIT. By water shall he die and take his end.
    As if they saw some wondrous monument,
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. What were I best to say? Her father's
    The self-same sun that shines upon his court
             shape of dogs and hounds, bunting them about;



  TIMON. Ready for his friends.
    More than my brother. 'Ay,' quoth my uncle Gloucester
    So from that spring whence comfort seem'd to come
    find me such a plain king that thou wouldst think I had sold my
    I would your Grace would give us but an hour
  TREBONIUS. Caesar, I will. [Aside.] And so near will I be
     If aught within that little seeming substance,
  King. Laertes, was your father dear to you?
    The close contriver of all harms,
  MACDUFF. Let us rather
    That whiles Verona by that name is known,
     Along with me.                                      Exeunt.
    Was better worth than all my father's lands,
  TRESSEL and BERKELEY, gentlemen attending on Lady Anne

  LUCENTIO. Preposterous ass, that never read so far
    Must have a word anon. Lay hold on him.
  ANGELO. Did not I tell thee yea? Hadst thou not order?
SCENE IV.
    indeed these humble considerations make me out of love with my
    Hath my behaviour given to your displeasure
  WOLSEY. The packet, Cromwell,
    Send thee by me, their Tribune and their trust,
                    Enter a MAN from ANTONIO
  WESTMORELAND. I am glad of it.
    They call false caterpillars and intend their death.
  Your weeping sister is no wife of mine,
    Thou never didst them wrong, nor no man wrong;
  BARDOLPH. Well, my lord. He heard of your Grace's coming to town.
    Hath mov'd his Highness to commit me now.
  Is that the chain you promis'd me to-day?
    i' faith.  
  Both by the Syracusians and ourselves,
                                   [They withdraw into the tent]
     'Tis on such ground, and to such wholesome end,
The hall in Leonato's house.
  EVANS. I pray you now, good Master Slender's serving-man,
  POINS. God send the wench no worse fortune! But I never said so.
    I came with Hermia hither. Our intent
    no man regards it.
  DESDEMONA. Come, come,
    The contract you pretend with that base wretch,
  ANTONIO. Nay, good my lord, be not angry.
  BISHOP OF LINCOLN             LORD ABERGAVENNY

    I thought my mother and my brother York
                                           Your unfortunate son,
            Come, thou monarch of the vine,
  Wor. Your father's sickness is a maim to us.

  KING. You are deceived, 'tis not so.
    Thy grandam loves thee, and thy uncle will
    But no man's virtue nor sufficiency
    Before did satisfy you. If you'll patch a quarrel,

    unintelligent of our insufficience, may, though they cannot
    Stamp, rave, and fret, that I may sing and dance.  
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. And did not I in rage depart from thence?
Enter PORTIA with her waiting-woman, NERISSA
Retreat and flourish. Enter RICHMOND, DERBY bearing the crown,
    Too nice, and yet too true!
    Spoke with the King, and have procur'd his leave
    To meet at London London's King in woe.
                 Enter ANTONY and OCTAVIA
    He bear himself with honourable action,
    With pomp, with triumph, and with revelling.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    And so God be with him! Here comes newer comfort.
    And now to Paris in this conquering vein!
    to the Indies; I understand, moreover, upon the Rialto, he hath a
    Proceed by swallowing that; for he believes
  BEROWNE. Amen, so I had mine! Is not that a good word?

    You conjure from the breast of civil peace
    When I am sleeping with my ancestors.
             Enter MONTAGUE, with drum and colours
    Prov'd us unspeaking sots.  
    scholar  [Presenting LUCENTIO]  that hath been long studying at
  PETRUCHIO. Nay, come, Kate, come; you must not look so sour.  
    with what violence she first loved the Moor, but for bragging and  
  ULYSSES. How now, my lord?
    Whom I most hated living, thou hast made me,
    Have in our armours watch'd the winter's night,
    Seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth,
    Unyoke this seizure and this kind regreet?
    And though you think me poor, I am the man

    More miserable by the death of him

      Enter the QUEEN, usher'd by the DUKES OF NORFOLK
    More like an empress than Duke Humphrey's wife.
    Would have reverted to my bow again,
    Than would make up his message.
  LUCIUS' SERVANT. welcome, good brother, what do you think the hour?
  Hor. Let them come in.
    i' th' litter; and you may know by my size that I have
  FALSTAFF. Is it? I Will then address me to my appointment.
    And to't they go like lightning; for, ere I
    And with loud 'larums welcome them to Rome.

    Men of his way should be most liberal,
  Fool. Let me hire him too. Here's my coxcomb.
  By oft predict that I in heaven find.
  Nurse. Well, you have made a simple choice; you know not how to
  Such civil war is in my love and hate,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Faith, stay here this night; they will
  ANTONIO. Will you deny me now?
    The master of the cross-bows, Lord Rambures;
    and under that habit play the knave with him.- Do you hear,
    And they are rich, and ransom all ill deeds.
  As testy sick men when their deaths be near,
    pound! Didst perceive?
    Of it own kind, all foison, all abundance,
    A storm, or robbery, call it what you will,
    This is a man's invention, and his hand.

    The heavens with that we have in hand are angry
     suspicion more fully.- I will persever in my course of loyalty,
LUCE.  [Within]  Can you tell for whose sake?
     Bad is the trade that must play fool to sorrow,

    How or which way; 'tis sure they found some place
    The Moor is of a free and open nature,
    More worth than empty vanities; yet prayers and wishes
    And tell me how you would bestow yourself.
    My discontented troops, and lay for hearts.
    Let her alone; speak not of Helena;
     say they are Persian attire; but let them be chang'd.
Scene V.
     That we our largest bounty may extend
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Is made my gaoler to attend on me.
    I can express no kinder sign of love

    As princes do their courts when they are cloy'd
    The Duke of Suffolk is the first, and claims
    Cool and congeal again to what it was.
  SIR TOBY. Art thou good at these kickshawses, knight?
    pump, that, when the single sole of it is worn, the jest may
    Come, Kate, and wash, and welcome heartily.
           Tongues I'll hang on every tree
    In change of him. Let him be sent, great Princes,
    Save for the son that she did litter here,  
    consenting; but say with me, I love Aliena; say with her that she
    But send the midwife presently to me.
    this walk. He has been yonder i' the sun practising behaviour to  
    Takes off my manhood. I have belied a lady,

  And prays that you will hie you home to dinner.
     Like rats, oft bite the holy cords atwain
    And as the long divorce of steel falls on me
  SENATORS. To Coriolanus come all joy and honour!

    They'll say 'tis nought; others to hear the city
    and broke open my lodge.

    Let me see, let me see; is not the leaf turn'd down
    Then shall you know the wounds invisible
    Confess thy treasons ere thou fly the realm;
    But by ten words, my lord, it is too long,
    your excuse wisely, you were best.                      Exit
    Keep Stephen Langton, chosen Archbishop
    And here he means to spend his time awhile.  
    I lov'd him as in honour he requir'd;
                         Enter a Servant.
    As poisonous of your honour. No, our suit
ABBESS. By men of Epidamnum he and I
  LUCENTIO. Are you so formal, sir? Well, I must wait,
  MYRMIDON. The Troyan trumpets sound the like, my lord.
    very frampold life with him, good heart.
    For food and diet, to some enterprise
    As for that ravenous tiger, Tamora,  
    So many hours must I tend my flock;
  PORTER. Make way there for the Princess.
    ladies' favours, they do always reason themselves out again.


    To overtake thee. Would thou hadst less deserved,
  And at her heels a huge infectious troop
    Or else we lose ourselves to keep our oaths.
  IAGO. And this may help to thicken other proofs
                   I am gone, sir,
    prate;
  KING RICHARD. What says he?  
    is, to bring the moonlight into a chamber; for, you know, Pyramus
    I have a man's mind, but a woman's might.
  PANDARUS. Do, do.
     To Edmund Earl of Gloucester. Seek him out
    nominate them all, it is impossible. My lords, Saint Alban here
  QUINTUS. Reach me thy hand, that I may help thee out,
    A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
    desire they were; but, in faith, honest as the skin between his

  Lear. Because they are not eight?
    I told him of myself, which was as much
    The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness,
    Desires to be admitted to your presence.
    More than a mortal seeming. Be not angry,

  Glou. I have no way, and therefore want no eyes;
    He prov'd best man i' th' field, and for his meed
    But as I travell'd hither through the land,

    hear? Let them be well us'd; for they are the abstract and brief
    Enter our gates; dispose of us and ours;
    soldier; take a soldier, take a king. And what say'st thou, then,
    But, O! the treacherous Fastolfe wounds my heart
    Forsaken your pernicious faction,
  CLITUS. What, I, my lord? No, not for all the world.
Enter MARIANA; and BOY singing
    when I last saw him.
  BURGUNDY. What say'st thou, Charles? for I am marching
    Deliver'd strongly through my fixed teeth,
    And we shall shock them. Nought shall make us rue,
    Thy mother felt more than a mother's pain,
    But, Titus, I have touch'd thee to the quick,
    There is no music in the nightingale;
    And sight-outrunning were not; the fire and cracks
    knaves, and it will go near to be thought so shortly. How answer
    Here comes one.
  LAFEU. How understand we that?
    Than both your poets can in praise devise.
ANGELO'S house
    And fly with me to Cressid!
    To know from whence we are.
    Came in strong rescue. Speak, thy father's care;
                                                  Exit Falstaff.
    And his unbookish jealousy must construe
  TITUS. Welcome, my lord; welcome, dread Queen;
    Drawn on with torture.  
    fears, as we do, his fears, out of doubt, be of the same relish
     Long in our court have made their amorous sojourn,
  OTHELLO.             Come, let us to the castle.  
    And every day do honour to her grave.
  CYMBELINE. Take him hence,
    All ignorant that soul that sees thee without wonder;
  DUKE. Now, as thou art a gentleman of blood,

     Could my good brother suffer you to do it?

     Conspirant 'gainst this high illustrious prince;
    But like a drunkard must I vomit them.
    To lean upon. But it would warm his spirits
    Meet for rebellion and such acts as yours.
    wisely.
     Is't not the King?

  APEMANTUS. What wouldst thou have to Athens?
    Knock at his study, where they say he keeps
    Abruptly, as my passion now makes me,
    For ere the six years that he hath to spend
    Fillip the stars; then let the mutinous winds
     His daughters seek his death. Ah, that good Kent!

  HASTINGS. And so say I.
  VIOLA. What is his name?
    My dukedom of thee, which perforce I know
                       Enter Cinna.
  PORTIA. Nothing is good, I see, without respect;  
    Whiles the big year, swoln with some other grief,
  COUNTESS. Love you my son?  
    And left me to a bootless inquisition,
  Prince. I say, 'tis copper. Darest thou be as good as thy word now?
    A man may weep upon his wedding-day.
  Upon mine hostess there; good sir, make haste.
    Let us impart what we have seen to-night

    How many nobles then should hold their places
  That thou no form of thee hast left behind,
  STEPHANO,     "     "    "
  DICK. My lord, when shall we go to Cheapside, and take up
    My heart is sorry for your daughter's death;
    breath, prompt us to have mercy on him; at which time we will
  MESSENGER. My Lord High Constable, the English lie within fifteen
    behaviour, as they say; for the gentlewoman is young; and
    The small'st opinion on my least misuse?
    But now I see our lances are but straws,
    says he has a stratagem for't. When your lordship sees the bottom
    Talk with a ruffian at her chamber window,
    And I am prest unto it; therefore, speak.
    And every lovely organ of her life
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

    Who is most inward with the noble Duke?
AS YOU LIKE IT

    Therefore all hearts in love use their own tongues;
    Well, do not then; for since you love me not,
    The trumpery in my house, go bring it hither
ACT V. SCENE 2.
  KING. Charles, good night.                             Exit SUFFOLK
    No warmth, no breath, shall testify thou livest;
    O, tell me when my lips do touch his cheeks,
    Then let not him be slandered with revolt.

  FIRST SENATOR. We speak in vain.
    downstairs, his eloquence the parcel of a reckoning. I am not yet
    And many other of great name and worth;
    He hail'd down oaths that he was only mine;
    Where shall we sojourn till our coronation?
    Of my boy's face, methoughts I did recoil

    Rebuke and dread correction wait on us,
    dead moon-calf's gaberdine for fear of the storm. And
  Alb. He knows not what he says; and vain is it
    full fain heard some question 'tween you tway.
    As heaven shall work in me for thine avail,
    For treason is but trusted like the fox
A camp at a short distance from Rome
                                       Exeunt fighting. Alarums.
  HECTOR. Now, youthful Troilus, do not these high strains
  RIVERS. Then is my sovereign slain?
  
  Leon. Friar, it cannot be.
    To reason most absurd, whose common theme
    Here on my knee, before high heaven and you,
  ALCIBIADES. I am an humble suitor to your virtues;
    Heat outwardly or breath within, I'll serve you
                        SIR HUGH EVANS
    Though I perchance am vicious in my guess,
    To-morrow. Now, if you could wear a mind
    Such a foe, good heavens!                 Exit into the cave
    no instruction; if their daughters be capable, I will put it to
  Simply I credit her false-speaking tongue,
    I should repent the evils I have done;
    Though ink be made of gall.
    Thy beauty that doth make me like thee well,
  Infect thy sap, and live on thy confusion.
    wars eat us not up, they will; and there's all the love they bear
                    Enter a MESSENGER

  HOSTESS. No, by my troth, not long; for we cannot lodge and board a
    Would have flung from him; but indeed he could not;
    For this revolt of thine, methinks, is like
  ELBOW. Marry, I thank your worship for it. Thou seest, thou wicked
    To give her the avaunt, it is a pity
    What maintenance he from his friends receives,
    All in gore-blood. I swounded at the sight.
    knit him a stock.
    Some food we had and some fresh water that
    Sometime puts forth. In your affairs, my lord,
    And our King Henry gives away his own
    More slavish did I ne'er than answering  
    A noble life before a long, and wish

  AUFIDIUS. Ay, traitor, Marcius.
    That ran through Caesar's bowels, search this bosom.
    Can any face of brass hold longer out?
     Sunshine and rain at once: her smiles and tears
  WINCHESTER. Gloucester, I do defy thee. Lords, vouchsafe

  LUCENTIO. Spit in the hole, man, and tune again.
  FORD. This is strange. Who hath got the right Anne?
    That perish'd by the way. Thoughts are no subjects;
    finger, tickles these together! Fry, lechery, fry!
  ARMADO. I spoke it, tender juvenal, as a congruent epitheton
    Upon this ground; and more it would content me
  LUCETTA. What fashion, madam, shall I make your breeches?
    And those who have the wit to claim the place.
    First were we sad, fearing you would not come;

  SOMERSET. Ah, Warwick! Montague hath breath'd his last;
    The dangerous and unsuspected Hastings.
    Let us be back'd with God, and with the seas
    No noise, but silence and eternal sleep.
    The reason mov'd these warlike lords to this
    Not all the whips of heaven are large enough-
    To come abroad?
A heath. Thunder.
    What is infirm from your sound parts shall fly,
  That millions of strange shadows on you tend?
              CAESAR'S camp before Alexandria
    Now civil wounds are stopp'd, peace lives again-
  DUKE OF SURREY

    Who lives and dares but say thou didst not well
    A terrible and unavoided danger;
    Play with your fancies; and in them behold
  My master preaches patience to him, and the while
    Prodigious, and untimely brought to light,
    They were not born for bondage.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Was that the King that spurr'd his horse so
    and the rams together, and to offer to get your living by the
  TROILUS. You know now your hostages: your uncle's word and my firm
  CLEOPATRA, Queen of Egypt
    By throwing it on any other object
  IMOGEN. Thou told'st me, when we came from horse, the place
    [To To the PEDANT] Sir, this is the gentleman I told you of;

    Out at the postern by the abbey wall;
    We here attend you. Are you yet determin'd
    I have been talking with a suitor here,
    Quit their own part, and in obsequious fondness
  Pedro. I will not hear you.
    it of me with false dice; therefore your Grace may well say I
    That I may pass this doing.
    His acts being seven ages. At first the infant,
  FALSTAFF. Prick him.
    Our nation's terror and their bloody scourge!
    A thousand fiends, a thousand hissing snakes,
    sparrow.                                                     Exit
  PAGE. Thou wast whelp'd a dog, and thou shalt famish dog's death.
    Have with our needles created both one flower,
    I am in heaven for him; or ere I could
    And there lacks work; anon he's there afoot,
    That mought not be distinguish'd; but at last,
    Would blow you through and through. Now, my fair'st friend,

    But Saturnine? Full well, Andronicus,
    To give me audience. If the midnight bell
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    That was my wife's?
         That lend a tyrannous and a damned light
  LYSANDER. He hath rid his prologue like a rough colt; he knows not
  Edg. Here comes Kent.
    Get thee to bed, and rest; for thou hast need.  
ACT IV SCENE 5.
    Ah, thou spell! Avaunt!
    Till fields and blows and groans applaud our sport!    Exeunt.
    The next degree is England's royal throne,
    Do deeds to make heaven weep, all earth amazed;
    something stale and hoar ere it be spent
SCENE III.

    But all in vain are these mean obsequies;
  GRUMIO. I am for thee straight; take thou the bill, give me thy
    O, sirs, consider: they that set you on
    Of sacred chastity and of promise-breach,
    Pitiful sight! here lies the County slain;
Enter WARWICK and OXFORD, with French soldiers
    The least of all these signs were probable.
ADRIANA. I see two husbands, or mine eyes deceive me.
  HORTENSIO. Madam, my instrument's in tune.
    Let's follow him and pervert the present wrath
  Fran. Let me see. About Michaelmas next I shall be-
  Alb. Who dead? Speak, man.
    They are the issue of your loins, my liege,
  Doug. A fool go with thy soul, whither it goes!
    Was I for this nigh wreck'd upon the sea,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Thou fellow, a word.
                                            Exit with attendants
    indeed not her fool, but her corrupter of words.
    There's no harm done.
    Thy master in bleeding. Say his name, good friend.
    true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else

    delivered as far as Charing Cross.
  CHAMBERLAIN. Good morrow, ladies. What were't worth to know
    Weep, wretched man; I'll aid thee tear for tear;
  Prince. Prithee do, Jack.
    The rascal people, thirsting after prey,
  BIONDELLO. No, sir; I say his horse comes with him on his back.
    Honour is cudgell'd. Well, bawd I'll turn,
    speak no more than is set down for them. For there be of them
    That so her torture may be shortened.
    Was stay'd by accident, and yesternight
    Queen Guinever of Britain was a little wench, as touching the hit
    Achiev'd her mistress.
    I have no ears to his request. The Queen
    against the which he has impon'd, as I take it, six French
  IAGO. After her, after her.
    Here doth he wish his person, with such powers
  MRS. PAGE. They are all couch'd in a pit hard by Heme's
    And buy men's voices to commend our deeds.
    to your manor of Pickt-hatch; go. You'll not bear a letter
    That ever Timon was. Shame not these woods
    Whose sale is present death in Mantua,  
    I think affliction may subdue the cheek,
  Claud. I know what you would say. If I have known her,
    have borne the humour'd letter to her; but I have a sword,
  OLIVIA. Can you do it?
    For hands to do Rome service is but vain.
                                    [Kent is put in the stocks.]
    Cry, cry. Troy burns, or else let Helen go.                  Exit

    a quick venue of wit- snip, snap, quick and home. It rejoiceth my
    Thou wast installed in that high degree.
  FABIAN. This is to give a dog, and in recompense desire my dog
    Nor wrong mine age with this indignity.
  If this be not a dream I see and hear.
    And add more coals to Cancer when he burns
  Since sweets and beauties do themselves forsake,
  BISHOP OF ELY. In happy time, here comes the Duke himself.
  PROTEUS. The best way is to slander Valentine
    Are you at leisure, holy father, now,
    Ere I again behold my Romeo!
    Would he not stumble? would he not fall down,
    watchings.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>

    Shall be my brother; be he ne'er so vile,
    Whose weak untimber'd sides but even now
    And all the secrets of our camp I'll show,
    We fear to warrant in our native place!
    But, on my honour, she was charg'd with nothing
    Call'd Katherina, fair and virtuous?
    That seems to speak things strange.
    Yet must not we put the strong law on him.
  DUKE SENIOR. Thou seest we are not all alone unhappy:
    And with their faint reply this answer join:
    Thou sober-suited matron, all in black,
  FIRST SOLDIER. And you. Good night, good night.
  OTHELLO. By heaven, I saw my handkerchief in 's hand.
  QUINTUS
    Will be here with mop and mow.
  When I behold the violet past prime,
    worship more of the wart the next time we have confidence;
    I am content, so thou wilt have it so.
                     111
    thought browner; and your gown's a most rare fashion, i' faith.
    Shall not so stale his palm, nobly acquir'd,
    To use my lawful sword!
    What ribs of oak, when mountains melt on them,
  IAGO. I once more take my leave.                              Exit.
    Nor, I am sure, there is not force in eyes
    Alack, when once our grace we have forgot,
    With that keen appetite that he sits down?
    Against the wind a mile! You souls of geese
    I doubt not then but innocence shall make
  ROSALIND. I would cure you, if you would but call me Rosalind, and
  HERMIONE. Since what I am to say must be but that
  Claud. Disloyal?
    off. To conclude, I am so good a proficient in one quarter of an
  CLOWN. Come on, strike up.
   Neighbour'd by fruit of baser quality;
  ANGELO. Nay, women are frail too.
  LUCIO. For that which, if myself might be his judge,
    overlooking. I have those hopes of her good that her education

    With telling me of the moldwarp and the ant,

    souviendrai. Les doigts? Je pense qu'ils sont appeles de fingres;
    there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,
  GRATIANO. That will I do.
  Ham. O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother! But is there no
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I buy a thousand pound a year; I buy a rope.
    Which makes the true man kill'd and saves the thief;
    No less belov'd. The Roman Emperor's letters,
    and your misery increase with your age! I say to you, as I was
  MESSENGER. My lord, your valiant kinsman, Faulconbridge,
    Is pleas'd you shall to th' Tower, till you know
    That can entame my spirits to your worship.
    There is no cause; when you shall know your mistress
    enough of themselves; and to call 'horum'; fie upon you!
    the Count himself here hard by woos her.
    I'll keep them, by this hand!
    and in the hottest day prognostication proclaims, shall he be set
    Even this ill night, your breathing shall expire,
    Now give some surance that thou art Revenge-
    So play the foolish throngs with one that swoons;
    My father's land, as was my father's will.
  DUCHESS. O, she that might have intercepted thee,  
    Or we are Romans and will give you that,
     Is wretchedness depriv'd that benefit
    Which, slanderer, he imitation calls-
  RUTLAND. O, let me pray before I take my death!
    He thinks me now incapable; confederates,
    Come, temperate nymphs, and help to celebrate
  COMINIUS. Your temples burned in their cement, and
  BEROWNE. Your mistresses dare never come in rain
  Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
  FALSTAFF. Sir, I will be as good as my word. This that you heard
    I do beseech you, as in way of taste,
  CRESSIDA. So he says here.
    And find no harbour in a royal heart.

    Here 'tis; commends it to your blessing.
  SHALLOW. The Council shall hear it; it is a riot.

  AJAX. I am not warm yet; let us fight again.
    That our best water brought by conduits hither;
                        SONG
    Give me some present counsel; or, behold,
                Re-enter BELARIUS and ARVIRAGUS  
    And is not this an honourable spoil?
  MIRANDA. Alack, for mercy!
    Be like a king, and show my sail of greatness,
  ANTONY. The gods best know-
    Save that to die, I leave my love alone.
    Becomes a sun, and makes your son a shadow.
  PROTEUS. And what says she to my little jewel?
  CLEOPATRA. Take thou no care; it shall be heeded.
    Of the whole body. The belly answer'd-
    That brought my answer back. Brutus hath rived my heart.
    As aconitum or rash gunpowder.
    To credit his own lie-he did believe
    And plead my passions for Lavinia's love.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Tell him my mourning weeds are laid aside,
    For them to play at will. How came the posterns
  Kent. Good my lord, enter here.
  Claud. And Hymen now with luckier issue speeds
    If this did blast in proof. Soft! let me see.
    Are level now with men. The odds is gone,
  MAYOR. True, my good lord; I know you for no less.

    bell-wether; next, to be compass'd like a good bilbo in the
  ALL. Amen, amen. God save thee, noble consul!
    But would it please thee, good Andronicus,
  WOLSEY. And ever may your Highness yoke together,
     I would breed from hence occasions, and I shall,
    To give a kingdom for a mirth, to sit
    We'll say our song the whilst. Brother, begin.

    is thine'; who, though I speak it before his face, if he be not
  PAROLLES. I would have said it; you say well. Here comes the King.
    But yet I cannot help you.
    That long to move.
  STEPHANO. Monster, lay-to your fingers; help to bear this
    Thus is the shepherd beaten from thy side,
    These tidings nip me, and I hang the head
    I will be satisfied; let me see the writing.
  HOST. How now, are you sadder than you were before?
    For I can raise no money by vile means.
  Being compact of credit, that you love us;
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
            him over to a gaoler. Exeunt omnes
    brother and that I am a proper fellow of my hands; and those two

    His semblable, yea, himself, Timon disdains.
    That we have made so much on. I had rather
  Beat. How tartly that gentleman looks! I never can see him but I am
    young folks lay their heads together! Master, master, look about
    Than common sleep of all these five the sense.

    For 'tis my limited service.                           Exit.
    cunning in fence, I'd have seen him damn'd ere I'd have
    Like or find fault; do as your pleasures are;
    Upon his Irish expedition;
  LAUNCELOT. Sola, sola! wo ha, ho! sola, sola!
    Curs'd be that heart that forc'd us to this shift!
    Wept like two children in their deaths' sad story.
  LAFEU. Was I, in sooth? And I was the first that lost thee.
    To walk abroad and recreate yourselves.
           No, no, he is dead;  
    Grow from the King's acquaintance, by this carriage.
    What she has done for me?
    Bears all down with her brain; and this her son
    All that which Henry the Fifth had gotten?
  PRINCE OF WALES. Father, you cannot disinherit me.
    That I may never have you in suspect.
    Men shut their doors against a setting sun.
    Of late. Hail, sir!
    Is but the vain breath of a common man:
  Whereon the thought might think sometime it saw
    brother thus? I am sure care's an enemy to life.
    To leave the Talbot and to follow us.
    Being free from vainness and self-glorious pride;
    The fortunes and affairs of noble Brutus

  KEEPER. Your Grace may enter now.
1608
     Do sorely ruffle. For many miles about
    That is enough to satisfy the Senate.

    The times and titles now are alter'd strangely

  PERDITA.  [To POLIXENES]  Sir, welcome.
  DIANA. I found it not.
  DUCHESS. Art thou gone too? All comfort go with thee!  
    For thy part, I do wish thou wert a dog,
    Shall she, within my pow'r.
  ALL SERVANTS. Ay; would they serv'd us!
    Only reserv'd their factor to buy souls
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. What two reverend bishops
  CRESSIDA. Who comes here?
  PUCELLE. I am prepar'd; here is my keen-edg'd sword,
    With the rude brevity and discharge of one.
  Time's thievish progress to eternity.
  SUFFOLK. Believe it.
    I should have fatted all the region kites
  KING HENRY. So, if a son that is by his father sent about
    Out of the bloody fingers' ends of john.
The Abbey at Bury St. Edmunds
  HERMIA. Why are you grown so rude? What change is this,
     With how deprav'd a quality- O Regan!
    Therefore present to her-as sometimes Margaret
  The very part was consecrate to thee,
    And swear I got them in the Gallia wars.                Exit
    mine own part, sir, I do not care; but rather because I am
    Jove's Mercury, and herald for a king!
    Do thou but close our hands with holy words,
    My noble lord and father, live in fame!
                  Alexandria. CAESAR'S camp
  METELLUS. Caius Ligarius doth bear Caesar hard,
    There is a plot against my life, my crown;
    I will, as 'twere a brother of your order,
  PUCK. I took him sleeping- that is finish'd too-
    But that to your sufficiency- as your worth is able-

    More free than he is jealous.
    The cause why I have brought this army hither
  A YOUNG DAUGHTER OF CLARENCE (Margaret Plantagenet,
  FALSTAFF. Good Master Silence, it well befits you should be of the
  BRUTUS. Cassius,
  CAIUS. By gar, me dank you vor dat; by gar, I love you; and
  ARIEL. Prospero my lord shall know what I have done;
  Reg. I am doubtful that you have been conjunct  
          Enter PUBLIUS, CAIUS, and VALENTINE
    I admittance and opportunity to friend.
    When you have done, repair to Crosby Place.  
    to woo her in good English.
  FORD. Help to search my house this one time. If I find not  
  MOTH. As swift as lead, sir.
    Feeds in the bosom of such great commanders,
    Subtilly hath minist'red to have me dead,
    That works him strongly.
    opposite hath in him what youth, strength, skill, and wrath, can
    Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
    This bird you aim'd at, though you hit her not;  
    His Grace not being warn'd thereof before,
    spirit, what devil suggests this imagination? I would not ha'
    Taught thee to make vast Neptune weep for aye

    To see you are become so penitent.
    Not in the power on't. So our leader's led,
    Away, my Thetis!
  Wife. Marry, that 'marry' is the very theme
    Trenched in ice, which with an hour's heat
    Mistress, do I?
    Come, come, you froward and unable worins!
    Hath wrought the mure that should confine it in
    Such as the day is when the sun is hid.
    That ever I should live to see thee dead!
    So will I pray that thou mayst have thy Will,
    And for the contents' sake are sorry for our pains.
  TRINCULO. Here's neither bush nor shrub to bear off any

    What, is Lavinia then become so loose,
    again.
    Hence hermit then, my heart is in thy breast.

    Raising up wicked spirits from under ground,
    And will this brother's wager frankly play.
    Thou mad'st thine enemies shake, as if the world
  ALL.           Ding, dong, bell.

                                         Exeunt [all but Edgar].
  AUMERLE. Some honest Christian trust me with a gage
    but he seeks their hate with greater devotion than they can
  DOLL. I' faith, and thou follow'dst him like a church. Thou
    To meet his Grace just distance 'tween our armies?
    Hath gain'd thy daughter princely liberty.
    over with honey, set on the head of a wasp's nest; then stand
    Though it do split you, for, from this day forth,
    Surety secure; but modest doubt is call'd
  BIONDELLO. O, we are spoil'd; and yonder he is! Deny him, forswear
     Display'd so saucily against your Highness-
  OTHELLO.                   Now he importunes him
    Now, good Cesario, but that piece of song,
    All exercise on thee; thou shalt be pinch'd
    me the way to my will.
    How like a deer strucken by many princes
    Is that Camillo was an honest man;
      A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
  PAROLLES. Will this capriccio hold in thee, art sure?
    This swears he, as he is a prince, is just;
    From twelve to seventy, and, pouring war
  BARDOLPH. And of women.
    Which dar'st not, no, nor canst not rule a traitor.
    But let that go.
    Faith infringed which such zeal did swear?  
    And couple Clowder with the deep-mouth'd brach.
    But keep that count'nance still. My husband's hand?
    Are all too dear for me. Lie they upon thy hand,
    Till his friend sickness hath determin'd me?
    That did attend themselves, and had the virtue
                Your cuckoo sings by kind.
        TIMON; and to show their loves, each single out an
    As if the strings were thine, shouldst know of this.
    Came on my guard, and at thy tent is now
    Came to your court, how I was in your grace,
                           Exeunt the TWO STAFFORDS and soldiers
    Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
    In mortal paradise of such sweet flesh?
  OLD LADY. 'Tis strange: a threepence bow'd would hire me,
  PANDARUS. I do desire it.
  JAQUENETTA. I beseech your Grace, let this letter be read;
    Humbling their deities to love, have taken
    years, come peascod-time; but an honester and truer-hearted man
  CHANCELLOR. Then thus for you, my lord: it stands agreed,
    That sure th' have worn out Christendom.
              'Tu-who;
  John. There is no measure in the occasion that breeds; therefore
    Of this fair mansion, master of my servants,
    In the corrupted currents of this world
    No face is fair that is not full so black.
                          Enter Nurse.
  ANTONY. Why should he not?
  BERTRAM. Hers it was not.
    To will this easy match, play'd for a crown?
  Sher. One of them is well known, my gracious lord-
    As by the strength of their illusion
    Of old Sir Rowland! Why, what make you here?
    Thine intellect? Hath he been in thy heart?
  AUFIDIUS. And keep your honours safe!
    Or as one nail by strength drives out another,
    Of thy dear husband, than that horrid act
    'Tis lack of kindly warmth they are not kind;
  CHAMBERLAIN. It was a gentle business and becoming
    I prithee, name the time, but let it not
    Your lecture shall have leisure for as much.
SCENE VIII.
  ESCALUS. I will go darkly to work with her.
  SILVIA. Say that she be; yet Valentine, thy friend,
    The man shall have his mare again, and all shall be well.  
    But here's a parchment with the seal of Caesar;  
                          [He draws, and is charmed from moving]

    what talk we of these traitorly rascals, whose miseries are to be
    married a shepherd's daughter.
  MENENIUS. Pray you, who does the wolf love?
  Pedro. And Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that I know.
    Friendship is constant in all other things
    Than she a woman. 'Tis such fools as you
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Made it for me, sir! I bespoke it not.

    When I do see the very book indeed
  PAULINA. So I would you did; then 'twere past all doubt
    What I can show in this.                              Exeunt
  CORIOLANUS. No, I serve not thy master.
                                          Exeunt all but WARWICK
    A mother to the birth of three? Ne'er mother
    My last good deed was to entreat his stay;
    To do the office for thee of revenge,
  SECOND LORD. This is the first truth that e'er thine own tongue was
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Now 'tis the spring, and weeds are shallow-rooted;
  The accident which brought me to her eye
    I will embrace him with a soldier's arm,
                    Enter TALBOT and JOHN his son
    Her uncle Rivers; ay, and for her sake
    Go, my dread lord, to your great-grandsire's tomb,
    Of his wings destitute, the army broken,
    And temp'rately proceed to what you would  
    Some mollification for your giant, sweet lady.
    When all the world is here to look on me?
  Osw. I, madam?
  GAOLER. Indeed, sir, he that sleeps feels not the toothache. But a
    Venice. Watch you tonight; for the command, I'll lay't upon you.
    He gave his nose, and took't away again;
  GRATIANO. Roderigo!
    Thou wouldst appear most ugly. He is married?
    The world's large spaces cannot parallel.

  Ham. Why,
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. All-seeing heaven, what a world is this!
    Will have it thus, that nothing but our lives
  QUEEN MARGARET. But thou art neither like thy sire nor dam;
  LEONTES. How!
    To be invested.
  HOST. Farewell, my hearts; I will to my honest knight
  SUFFOLK. I'll undertake to make thee Henry's queen,
    Take them away.
    And this same half-fac'd fellow, Shadow- give me this man. He
    Stand you auspicious!
    That our great king himself doth woo me oft  
    [To WARWICK] Yet I confess that often ere this day,
                        Enter EROS
  GLANSDALE. And I here, at the bulwark of the bridge.
    The slave, a member of the country's peace,
    valour, and confirm'd honesty. I will teach you how to humour
    him for his lie, and, I think, being too strong for him, though  
    Audrey.                                               Exeunt
    Of one sore I an hundred make by adding but one more L.
    I laughed him out of patience; and that night
    That sund'red friends greet in the hour of death.
    His mother was a vot'ress of my order;
    I shall return before your lordship thence.
    I will be true despite thy scythe and thee.
    To send their smiles before them to Achilles,
    that I am father to, then call me husband; but in such a "then" I
ANGELO. Master Antipholus!
    Between her brother and Mark Antony.
    I think our country sinks beneath the yoke;
OFFICER. Good sir, be patient.
    In truth I know not. I was set at work
                            [Shout. Flourish of trumpets within]
    death is too soft for him, say I. Draw our throne into a
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  
    hither?
  Dog. First, who think you the most desartless man to be constable?
  DIANA. 'Tis pity he is not honest. Yond's that same knave
    Of merchant-marring rocks?
  ANGELO. Look, what I will not, that I cannot do.  
    May show like all yourself.
  SEBASTIAN. O good Antonio, forgive me your trouble.
    And shake the peace and safety of our throne.
    And when thou fail'st- as God forbid the hour!-
    Never to woo her more, but do forswear her,
[All gather to see them]
  ROSALINE. Madam, he swore that he did hold me dear
    And so repose, sweet gold, for their unrest
    is one. You must send her your page; no remedy.
  EROS. The Queen, my lord, the Queen!
  KING. Call them forth quickly; we will do so.
    'Tis true, 'tis true: witness my knife's sharp point.
    That I shall lose distinction in my joys;
    The motions of his spirit are dull:as night,

             And Robin shall restore amends.                Exit
  MARIA. Lo, how hollow the fiend speaks within him! Did not I tell
  GLOUCESTER. Then, Saunder, sit there, the lying'st knave in
    Ah, but some natural notes about her body
    offended. Who is here so vile that will not love his country? If
  LAUNCE. Lose the tide, and the voyage, and the master, and the
  THIRD SENATOR. What!

    Taken as seen; for Pompey's name strikes more
     Degenerate bastard, I'll not trouble thee;
    Why keep we her? The Grecians keep our aunt.
    Of Edward king, the third of that descent;
  LUCIUS,       "    "     "
    us not.
    Against my child, my daughter Hermia.
  And that your love taught it this alchemy?
  EVANS. 'Tis one of the best discretions of a oman as ever
  HELEN, wife to Menelaus
    Postures beyond brief nature; for condition,
    Did they this Harry. Now in London place him-
  SALERIO. I would have stay'd till I had made you merry,

    But be thou mild, and blush not at my shame,
    Yet do not go away; come, basilisk,
    speak with you both.
  FABIAN. Anything.
    The sin of my ingratitude even now
    Would men observingly distil it out;
  KING RICHARD. So, I am satisfied. Give me a bowl of wine.
    Richard except, those whom we fight against  
  But from thine eyes my knowledge I derive,
  FABIAN. No way but gentleness- gently, gently. The fiend is rough,
    So to esteem of us; and on our knees we beg,
    Thy state of law is bondslave to the law;
  PATROCLUS. Thersites, my lord.
  SIR ROBERT BRAKENBURY, Lieutenant of the Tower
  MARCUS. Go, go into old Titus' sorrowful house,
    Presents well worthy Rome's imperious lord;
    You'll never meet a more sufficient man.
                                                 Exit with MARIA
  KING JOHN. My life as soon. I do defy thee, France.
  SLENDER. Whoa, ho, ho, father Page!
    To gratulate thy plenteous bosom. Th' Ear,
    On terms of base compulsion! Can it be
    God shall be truly known; and those about her
  Guil. But with much forcing of his disposition.

    There to remain till the King's further pleasure
           Or a harlot for her weeping,
    Disguising what they are.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  GLOUCESTER. Bid me farewell.

  LYSANDER. If thou say so, withdraw, and prove it too.
    With maiden flowers, that all the world may know
    To gripe the general sway into your hand;
    being in love, could not see to garter his hose; and you, being
    And I believe it is a fetch of warrant.
  KING HENRY. Even so. What are you?
    To signify their coming.
Scene V.
  BOYET. I fear too much rubbing; good-night, my good owl.
  POMPEY. We'll feast each other ere we part, and let's
  BARDOLPH. Sir, the Germans desire to have three of your
    Look how I am bewitch'd; behold, mine arm
  Our love was new, and then but in the spring,
    avoirdupois.
  Fool. Shalt see thy other daughter will use thee kindly; for though
    One hundred twenty-six; added to these,
  CLOTEN. The villain would not stand me.
    I know it by thy trembling; now Prosper works upon thee.
  ALONSO. A daughter!
    But see, his face is black and full of blood;
    But, like a comet, I Was wond'red at;
    Than the constraint of hospitable zeal
    What shall I say more than I have inferr'd?
  Beauty's effect with beauty were bereft,
    I give heaven thanks, and make no boast of them. Come, warble,
    Where great patricians shall attend, and shrug,
          Shall of a corn cry woe,
  LAUNCELOT. Truly, the more to blame he; we were Christians enow  
  COMINIUS. O, you have made good work!  
    How now, Sir Hugh, no school to-day?
  COMINIUS. March on, my fellows;
    And look how well my garments sit upon me,

  GLOUCESTER. Ay, by my faith, for a poor earl to give.
  TIMON. What trumpet's that?
    the wenches say is a gallimaufry of gambols, because they are not

    And like her most whose merit most shall be;
  Of hand, of foot, of lip, of eye, of brow,
    The Duke will lay upon him all the honour
  POLIXENES. What is the news i' th' court?
    Speechless complainer, I will learn thy thought;
    Razing the characters of your renown,
    It dies, an if it had a thousand lives.
    That with the fusty plebeians hate thine honours,
                   Enter PEMBROKE
    There is a soul counts thee her creditor,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    One that hath ever been God's enemy.
    'Jockey of Norfolk, be not so bold,
SCENE V.
    The peace of England and our persons' safety,
    commendation.'
    I should not urge it half so faithfully.
    There, there, Hortensio, will you any wife?
    between ten and eleven.
    It is a peerless kinsman.                  Flourish. Exeunt.
  Or else what lets it but he would be here?
    This lineal honour from me. This from thee
  PORTIA. Mark you but that!
  ORLANDO. As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion bequeathed
    And promise you calm seas, auspicious gales,
    And sits as one new risen from a dream.
  Claud. Know you any, Hero?
    I warrant, an I should live a thousand yeas,

     Of any trust, virtue, or worth in thee


    peers,
  OTHELLO. You heard her say herself, it was not I.
    And pity her for her good father's sake;
              and others. Some pitch RICHMOND'S tent
         Be merry, be merry, my wife has all;
    gentleman to the extremest shore of my modesty; but my brother
  FLAMINIUS. Is't possible the world should so much differ,
  CLOWN. You have said, sir. To see this age! A sentence is but a
  MALVOLIO. And then to have the humour of state; and after a demure
    deliver to a joyful resurrections!-give, when she is able to

    Bootless are plaints, and cureless are my wounds.
  ROSALINE. By heaven, you did; and, to confirm it plain,
    troubled with unruly boys.
    against it; and therefore never flout at me for what I have said  
    knows; but 'tis a goodly patch of velvet. His left cheek is a
    it provokes and unprovokes: it provokes the desire, but it takes


    But what it is that is not yet known what,
  KING JOHN. Bear mine to him, and so depart in peace;
  RICHARD. Thou didst love York, and I am son to York.
    Stoop'd as to foot us. His ascension is


    Well, say there is no kingdom then for Richard;
    Set on thy wife to observe. Leave me, Iago.
    Nor never write, regreet, nor reconcile
    Whiles yet the cool and temperate wind of grace
    enough, and one that loves quails, but he has not so much brain

    And like as rigour of tempestuous gusts

    daff'd all other respects and made her half myself. I pray you
                                       Exeunt GOWER and FLUELLEN

    count! Neanmoins, je reciterai une autre fois ma lecon ensemble:
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Breed him some prejudice; for from this league
  SALERIO. That's certain; I, for my part, knew the tailor that made
  OBERON. Do you amend it, then; it lies in you.
  Edg. A most poor man, made tame to fortune's blows,
Enter ISABELLA and MARIANA
    And common profit of his country!
  ANTONY. O, quick, or I am gone.
    no hand in his death, shall receive the benefit of his dying, a
    The Moor already changes with my poison:
    I stand here for him. What to him from England?
    He has borne all things well; and I do think  
    Where hearing should not latch them.
     And on the sixth to turn thy hated back
  KING. Know you not
              Exeunt [all but Montague, his Wife, and Benvolio].

  SUFFOLK. God safely quit her of her burden, and

    For love is still most precious in itself;
    Your father's heir must have your father's land.
    No occupation; all men idle, all;
    Which hatch'd would as his kind grow mischievous,
  ENOBARBUS. We came hither to fight with you.
    legs; for it hath been said: As proper a man as ever

  EVANS. Got's will and his passion of my heart! I had as lief
                      Enter a SERVANT
  Con. You should hear reason.
    Beseeching Thee, if with Thy will it stands
    Even with the vail and dark'ning of the sun,
    lunatic.
    His napkin, with his true tears all bewet,

    Out of a new-sad soul, that you vouchsafe
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS

    Her children not her husband's!
  EVANS. William, how many numbers is in nouns?

    tales of me. I am bound to the Count Orsino's court. Farewell.
                     Enter VALENTINE
  Edg. [aside]. Why I do trifle thus with his despair
    Whose price hath launch'd above a thousand ships,
    A woman's will; a cank'red grandam's will!
    against all married mankind; so curses an Eve's daughters,
  VARRO'S SERVANT. Hang him, he'll abuse us!
  And be not of my holy vows afraid.
  DUMAIN. No, cloven.
        While we lie tumbling in the hay.
  Whilst I alone did call upon thy aid,
    by your beards that I am a knave.
            Enter QUEEN MARGARET and the PRINCE OF WALES
  SERVANT. He did receive his letters, and is coming,
    that?
    We are blest that Rome is rid of him.  

  BEROWNE. Thou grievest my gall.

    But I, who never knew how to entreat,
    Doth like a miser spoil his coat with scanting
    To lie in cold obstruction, and to rot;
    One thing more rests, that thyself execute-
    Shall hoodwink this mischance; therefore speak softly.
    Subdue my worthiest self. The witch shall die.
  DORSET. This interchange of love, I here protest,
    Let us be worried, and our nation lose
  Hot. No more, no more! Worse than the sun in March,
    How much the quantity, the weight as much
    Within the limit of becoming mirth,

  All replication prompt, and reason strong,
    The Emperor himself, and all thy foes;
    Now, when the angry trumpet sounds alarum
  For canker vice the sweetest buds doth love,


    Arise forth from the couch of lasting night,
  Bene. Will your Grace command me any service to the world's end? I
  DUKE. Come hither, Isabel.  
              Re-enter FABIAN and VIOLA
    with you. Your father and my uncle hath made motions;
  PROTEUS. A silly answer, and fitting well a sheep.
  But creep in crannies when he hides his beams.
    leopard; wert thou a leopard, thou wert german to the lion, and
    I may command at most. Get weapons, ho!
    all the sight.
OFFICER. One Angelo, a goldsmith; do you know him?
    I wonder men dare trust themselves with men.
    You may, I may not; you are yet unsworn;

  King. How do you, pretty lady?
  WOLSEY. All goodness  
    Nay, I do bear a brain. But, as I said,
  CARDINAL. The commons hast thou rack'd; the clergy's bags
    We have led since thy exile. Think with thyself
    fingers and thumbs, give it breath with your mouth, and it will
    And understand again like honest men,
    And, in strong proof of chastity well arm'd,
    Myself of many I am charged withal.
  QUICKLY. Why, sir, she's a good creature. Lord, Lord, your
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. But that slander, sir,
  LUCULLUS. Ha! Now I see thou art a fool, and fit for thy master.
    By virtue specially to be achiev'd.
    If that this simple syllogism will serve, so; if it will not,
    Farewell, good King; when I am dead and gone,
  Effects of terror and dear modesty,
    Laugh'd in his face; and when with grief he wept,
Gloucester's Castle.
    The fearful French, whom you late vanquished,
  TITUS. Follow, my lord, and I'll soon bring her back.
    Bar his access to th' King, never attempt
  Which have no correspondence with true sight,
  ARMADO. We will talk no more of this matter.
    The gods today stand friendly that we may,
    If thou be pleas'd with this my sudden choice,
    For fear of which, hear this thou age unbred,
    To overgo thy woes and drown thy cries?
    Which for this fourteen years we have let slip;
    My stay, my guide, and lantern to my feet.
  SOOTHSAYER. That I have, lady. If it will please Caesar
    Did you not use his daughter very friendly?
  DEMETRIUS. By this our mother is for ever sham'd.
  DUKE. 'Tis false.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Amaz'd, my lord? Why looks your Highness sad?
Venice. A street
  CLOTEN. Art not afeard?
    Are prized by their masters. Believe't, dear lord,
    And fall on my side so, against your will.
    And wondrous affable, and as bountiful
    With thee and all thy best parts bound together,
  PANDULPH. How green you are and fresh in this old world!

    Which overshades the mouth of that same pit
    Even from the east to the west!

    Stands without blemish; next, it imports no reason
  TRANIO. What said the wench, when he rose again?
    Whether you had not sometime in your life
    pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,
                                                          Guns heard.

    That Nature pranks her in attracts my soul.
    What lady she her lord.- You'll stay?
    such goddesses, and hath sent this natural for our whetstone; for
    The yielding of her up?
    not the bones of the buried; when he breathed, he was a man. But  
                                                         [Music]

    To what, my love, shall I compare thine eyne?
    So sought'st to hinder.
    wings, and to rend our own soldiers!
    Stand aside, good bearer. Boyet, you can carve.
    So fare you well, my little good Lord Cardinal.
     And dizzy 'tis to cast one's eyes so low!
    For men so old as we to keep the peace.
                  [Trumpets, hautboys, drums beat, all together]
     Thy youngest daughter does not love thee least,
                 Wind away,
  Who give their eyes the liberty of gazing.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  
  PROVOST. Who's there? Come in; the wish deserves a welcome.
    These are their brethren, whom your Goths beheld
    Fed from my trencher, kneel'd down at the board,
    could be better bit than I have been since the first cock.
    In daily thanks, that gave us such a prince;
    Not more resembles- that sweet rosy lad
    wit? Can virtue hide itself? Go to, mum you are he. Graces will
  BERTRAM. My wife, my liege! I shall beseech your Highness,
    should be so rich; for when rich villains have need of poor ones,  

    If we prevail, their heads shall pay for it.
  Leon. Were it good, think you?

                 [Here they fight and JOAN LA PUCELLE overcomes]
SCENE III.
    Too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
    I pray you tell me what you meant by that.
  GLOUCESTER. I grant ye.
  DOLABELLA. Caesar, thy thoughts
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>

    The banish'd Bolingbroke repeals himself,
    He cried to me; I saw him prisoner;
    Would give it quick consideration, for
    Sirrah beadle, whip him till he leap over that same stool.
    That we two are asunder- let that grieve him!
    And forc'd to drink their vapour.
    art bought and sold among those of any wit like a barbarian
  AUMERLE. Remember, as thou read'st, thy promise pass'd.
    The King is set from London, and the scene
     How light and portable my pain seems now,
    Or gentleman that is not freely merry
    While pride is fasting in his wantonness!
    let thine eye be thy cook. I speak to thee plain soldier. If thou
    'Ad Martem' that's for myself.  
  Be rul'd by me: depart in patience,
    Trim gallants, full of courtship and of state.
    That arrows fled not swifter toward their aim
    Who have been false to Fulvia? Riotous madness,
  DUCHESS. A god on earth thou art.
  KING RICHARD. A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse!
  ARVIRAGUS. What pleasure, sir, find we in life, to lock it
  SICINIUS. What's the news?
  DUKE. This forenamed maid hath yet in her the continuance of her
    Hath drawn him from his own determin'd aid,
    me, sweet uncle, what's the matter?
     One of them we behold.
  And simple truth miscalled simplicity,
  BRUTUS. Is he alone?

    Caesar himself has work, and our oppression
    From Clifford's and Northumberland's pursuit.
    Whose worst was that the noble Mortimer,
    The Devil himself.
  KING. It was proclaimed a year's imprisonment to be taken with a
    Have thus proceeded.
    Post I in this design. Well may you, sir,
  HORTENSIO. For fear, I promise you, if I look pale.
    And so far am I glad it so did sort,
    Which he calls interest. Cursed be my tribe
    And art almost an alien to the hearts
    Out at your window betwixt twelve and one?
  SPEED. Your worship, sir; or else I mistook.
ACT I. SCENE I.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    I'll try whether my old wit be in request
    So far exceed all instance, all discourse,
  VALENTINE. My friends-
  PISANIO. Madam, here is a letter from my lord.
    With knaves that smell of sweat. Say this becomes him-
    what is't to leave betimes? Let be.
    Why stay'st thou here, and go'st not to the Duke?
    indeed, sir, the most skilful, bloody, and fatal opposite that
    But you, my lord, were glad to be employ'd,

  It might for Fortune's bastard be unfathered,
    Her name is Katherina Minola,  
  VIRGILIA. Yes, certain, there's a letter for you; I saw't.
    Labouring to save his life, and would not rather
  CLOWN. Not so, neither; but I am resolv'd on two points.
  Sure, Luciana, it is two o'clock.
    Thorough the streets of Rome?
    As thou art tender to't.                                Exit
    To be call'd whore? Would it not make one weep?
    As I can take it with another herb,
  Pedro. Why, how now, Count? Wherefore are you sad?

    She's going away.
    Relish a truth like us, inform yourselves

    And that engenders thunder in his breast
    Am I Rome's slave? What penny hath Rome borne,
    Against thy majesty; boys, with women's voices,

    But come, young waverer, come go with me.
  Cor. Alack, 'tis he! Why, he was met even now
    When you cast out, it still came home.
    By this day, I know not the phrase; but I will maintain the word
    That stand'st between her father's ground and mine;  

    At all acknowledge. For Polixenes,
    Love for thy love and hand for hand I give.
  PROTEUS. What dangerous action, stood it next to death,
    hereafter.
    Some misadventure.
    Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
    That ever Hector and Achilles meet;
  Ros. Madam, it so fell out that certain players
  BEROWNE. Take away the conqueror, take away Alisander.
    The Duke is coming; see the barge be ready;
  KING JOHN. O, when the last account 'twixt heaven and earth
    The heavens themselves, the planets, and this centre,
    thy foot would give an excellent motion to thy gait in a
     To love my father all.

    Harmonious charmingly. May I be bold
    And when you have done so, bring the keys to me.
    Poison, I see, hath been his timeless end.
    or other shall scape a predestinate scratch'd face.
    Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
    I'll be before thee.
Rome. The Forum
  PISANIO. Thou bid'st me to my loss; for true to thee
    born.
  hair lost by nature.
            Enter RUMOUR, painted full of tongues
    That babies lulls asleep! The smiles of knaves
                        Enter Chorus.
           Re-enter OFFICERS, with CLEOMENES and DION
  Alb. See thyself, devil!
    mother play'd false with a smith.  
    For he's disposed as the hateful raven.  

THE END
    Britons must take. For me, my ransom's death;
    Bordeaux.
    My honest grief unto him, and as my lord
    Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
  IAGO.                       Good sir, be a man;
  CADE. Here I am, thou particular fellow.
    more, because they say 'Od's nouns.'
    But if your title to the crown be weak,
    And in the neck of that task'd the whole state;
           With all graces wide-enlarg'd.
  JULIA. Madam, he sends your ladyship this ring.
    Paris, 'loo! The bull has the game. Ware horns, ho!
EPHESUS, DROMIO OF SYRACUSE, and DROMIO OF EPHESUS
  HERMIA. Do you not jest?
LORDS and ATTENDANTS
    Lest I might anger thee.
  LAFEU. Your lord and master did well to make his recantation.
     Thou'dst shiver'd like an egg; but thou dost breathe;
  BOATSWAIN. Work you, then.
  CADE. They fell before thee like sheep and oxen, and thou behavedst
     Exit.  
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OFEPHESUS and DROMIO OFEPHESUS
    I cannot live out of her company.
    Whose arms gave shelter to the princely eagle,

    For since these arms of mine had seven years' pith,
    And though you took his life, as being our foe,


    Why the law Salique, that they have in France,
  Bard. Why, Sir John, my face does you no harm.
  ROSALIND. Alas, dear love, I cannot lack thee two hours!
    And scarr'd the moon with splinters; here I clip
  SUFFOLK. Tush, my good lord! This superficial tale

  If thinking on me then should make you woe.
    Thou art allotted to be ta'en by me.
  CASCA. A common slave- you know him well by sight-
     O, these eclipses do portend these divisions! Fa, sol, la, mi.
    Of these thy compounds on such creatures as
    Then lay me forth; although unqueen'd, yet like

  Figuring that they their passions likewise lent me

  FIRST MESSENGER. By this at Dunsmore, marching hitherward.
  Ay me, I fell, and yet do question make

    himself. I look to be either earl or duke, I can assure you.
    Are here arriv'd, give order that these bodies
     So many fadom down precipitating,
    Till thou canst quit thee by thy brother's mouth
  KING HENRY. Sad-hearted men, much overgone with care,
  When were you wont to use my sister thus?
    How grounded he his title to the crown
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. We must forbear; here comes the gentleman,
    PHILOTUS
    How I may bear me here. My prime request,
    She false with Cassio? Did you say with Cassio?
  COBWEB. Cobweb.
  SILVIA. What say'st thou?
    And not as our confusion, all thy powers
    fitted for't.
  IAGO.                  Farewell, for I must leave you.  
    And yet I would it were to give again.
  EGLAMOUR. This is the hour that Madam Silvia
    Since things in motion sooner catch the eye
    Are in the field. A mighty strength they carry.
    That Charles the Dauphin may encounter them.

  MARCUS. That on mine honour here do I protest.
    bridle it. He shall die, an it be but for pleading so well for
  Cor. [aside] Then poor Cordelia!
    Say I will come.

     With this thin helm? Mine enemy's dog,
  KING. Why, then, young Bertram, take her; she's thy wife.
  WARWICK. Accept this scroll, most gracious sovereign;
  PISANIO. I heard no letter from my master since
    All her perfections challenge sovereignty.
    The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
    Than all thy brothers; cherish it, my boy,
    But not a sceptre to control the world.
  LEONTES. What noise there, ho?

    Or, ere they meet, in me, O nature, cesse!
    This talking lord can lay upon my credit,
    Lo, as at English feasts, so I regreet  
    Full of strange shapes, of habits, and of forms,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  LUCIUS. Some loving friends convey the Emperor hence,
    O foolish Cressid! I might have still held off,
     as well in the general dependants as in the Duke himself also
    she was quartered. They fell on; I made good my place.
     To use his eyes for garden waterpots,

                 In the cradle where it lies.  
  TUBAL. One of them showed me a ring that he had of your daughter
    Of old Andronicus. And what an if
    To lip a wanton in a secure couch,
    grace.
  Jul. O God!- O nurse, how shall this be prevented?
ACT_3|SC_1
    He would not then have touch'd them for his life!

  LUCIO. 'Cucullus non facit monachum': honest in nothing but in his
    I have no judgement in an honest face.  
    Well, whiles I am a beggar, I will rail
    But faults so countenanc'd that the strong statutes
  CELIA. You bring me out. Soft! comes he not here?
    He comes too short of that great property
    Hath not the ring upon it; it is gone.
    thee already.
  WOLSEY. Proud lord, thou liest.
    And do a deed that never fortune did-
  CAESAR. What can be avoided
ACT I. SCENE 3.
    Those suns of glory, those two lights of men,
    and say he lies here or he lies there, were to lie in mine own
    And aid thee in this doubtful shock of arms;
    You shall see it will fall pat as I told you; yonder she comes.

    As thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
             Enter Gloucester, and Servants with torches.
  EROS. Sir, sir!
    How insolent of late he is become,
The coast of Kent

    Caesar must bleed for it! And, gentle friends,  

  Fool. Then I prithee be merry. Thy wit shall ne'er go slip-shod.
    your Majesty is pear me testimony and witness, and will
    With mine own tears I wash away my balm,
    And but in purged judgment trusting neither?
    I'll not believe't.
    And he, repulsed, a short tale to make,
  KATHARINE. A light condition in a beauty dark.
    Of a despised life, clos'd in my breast,  

    Look to my house. I am right loath to go;
    To find out right with wrong-it may not be;
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    To gaze upon these secrets of the deep?
    And keep the natural ruby of your cheeks
  Hot. I'll keep them all.
  LYSANDER. Be not afraid; she shall not harm thee, Helena.
    Upon the sweetest flower of all the field.
    With tomboys hir'd with that self exhibition
    Forbiddenly.
                                      Exeunt Lucio and GENTLEMEN
    And can digest as much. Make no compare
    His antidotes are poison, and he slays
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. True, when avoided grace makes destiny.
    Gives us free scope; only doth backward pull
    I doubt not but to ride as fast as York;
  KING RICHARD. Go, Bushy, to the Earl of Wiltshire straight;
    With bated breath and whisp'ring humbleness,
    Awakes me all the enrolled penalties
  Gon. This admiration, sir, is much o' th' savour
     For thee, oppressed king, am I cast down;
    Have the like oaths. He had sworn to marry me
    Sir, by your leave: having come to Padua
    For by oppressing and betraying me
  Poins. Now, my good sweet honey lord, ride with us to-morrow. I
    The tyrant's people on both sides do fight,
[Beating him]
     You and your fellows. I'd have it come to question.
    Being the bosom lover of my lord,  
  BUCKINGHAM. My lord-
  PROSPERO. So glad of this as they I cannot be,
    But I am faint; my gashes cry for help.
  CLIFFORD. I slew thy father; call'st thou him a child?
  Which doth amount to three odd ducats more
              Re-enter PANDARUS With CRESSIDA
    Falsely to draw me in these vile suspects.
    Another would fly swift, but wanteth wings;
    intellect. True wit!
  TIMON. I, that I am one now.
  And many maiden gardens yet unset,
    And be not easily won to our requests.
  SECOND CITIZEN. In him there is a hope of government,

  OCTAVIUS. Come, Antony, away!

    Of that insatiate Edward, noble York  
  GLOUCESTER. [Aside to CARDINAL] Make up no factious numbers for the
    Beauty and honour in her are so mingled
    The glowworm shows the matin to be near
    These eyes, these brows, were moulded out of his;
    doublet of changeable taffeta, for thy mind is a very opal. I
    Did us but loving wrong.
    Safest in shame. Being fool'd, by fool'ry thrive.
    Hero: wooing, wedding, and repenting is as a Scotch jig, a
  CLOWN. What manner of fellow was he that robb'd you?
  EMILIA. Do thy worst;
    All continent impediments would o'erbear
  SURREY. Now, all my joy
    Quite from the flight of all thy ancestors.
    Then let us meet them like necessities;  
                      Re-enter WESTMORELAND
<Exeunt
    That is thy charge. Then to the elements
    Where fires thou find'st unrak'd, and hearths unswept,
  ELINOR. He hath a trick of Coeur-de-lion's face;
    Of what is to be dreaded.
    Who knocks so hard? Whence come you? What's your will
  TUBAL. Hath an argosy cast away coming from Tripolis.
    kinsman's.
    Had left no mourning widows for our death;
    life, fast asleep. Observe her; stand close.
    And now may seem as wise as virtuous
    Mine eyes should sparkle like the beaten flint,
    digested. You stay'd well by't in Egypt.
    When they do homage to this simple peasant.
    They have their exits and their entrances;
    Say as you think, and speak it from your souls:
  ISABELLA. I would to heaven I had your potency,
    help to hasten them?
    And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
  DIANA. When midnight comes, knock at my chamber window;
    To take her in her heart's extremest hate,
  VERNON. Nay, let it rest where it began at first.  
    'Edward' and 'York.' Then haply will she weep;
    Thy father's court? For thou shalt hear that I,
    power?

                         Exeunt TITUS, LAVINIA, and YOUNG LUCIUS
    Than thou hast made me by my dear lord's death.'
    good pancakes, and swore by his honour the mustard was naught.
    th' shoulder.
    I know Anne's mind for that; never a woman in Windsor
    Take thrice thy money; bid me tear the bond.
    To save your subjects from such massacre
    heir to the crown?
  Lear. Pass.


    And so by many winding nooks he strays,
    Without delay; and the pretence for this
    Shall never tremble. Or be alive again,
    The Marshal and the Archbishop are strong.
ANGELO, a goldsmith
    must do good against evil.                              Exit
    Shallow, deep, Master Shallow.
  BRUTUS. In this point charge him home, that he affects
  OTHELLO.               What is the matter, think you?
    Woo'd me to steal it; but she so loves the token,
  MENAS. No slander: they steal hearts.
     He flashes into one gross crime or other
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    And him as for a map doth Nature store,
    Hector of Troy; the swain, Pompey the Great; the parish curate,  
    Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep,
Enter OBERON

    lacking the burden of lean and wasteful learning, the other
    Italy have a fairer table which doth offer to swear upon a book- I
  AUTOLYCUS. Very true, sir; he, sir, he; that's the rogue that put
    And call'd them blind and dusky spectacles
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline.

  LADY MACBETH. Almost at odds with morning, which is which.
    And 'tis my hope to end successfully.
    And he that will not follow Bourbon now,
  PISTOL. Good.
    Should be shut up-hear what Ulysses speaks.
    My loving lord, I take my leave of you;

    almost choked Caesar, for he swounded and fell down at it. And
  CLEOPATRA. Nay, pray you seek no colour for your going,
  EMILIA. O, who hath done this deed?
  WARWICK. Whether your Grace be worthy, yea or no,
    An indistinct regard.
  BAPTISTA. Content you, gentlemen; I will compound this strife.
    Unto a dismal and a fatal end.
    As may appear by Edward's good success,
    Each drop she falls would prove a crocodile.
    More pregnantly than words. Yet you do well
                          Enter COSTARD
    Subdues and properties to his love and tendance
  MARIANA. I would Friar Peter-
    serve to naturalize thee, so thou wilt be capable of a courtier's
    But you shall hear. Thus:
    Before a sleeping giant. Tell him so.
    Or being, concern you not.
    Wherein the pregnant enemy does much.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  Fal. No, I'll be sworn. I make as good use of it as many a man doth
    Greet you our victory? You look like Romans,
    You tread upon my patience; but be sure
    With precepts that would make invincible
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
    Leave me and do the thing I bid thee do.
    I will discuss the humour of this love to Page.
    In anger, Juno-like. Come, come, come.
    Doth live again in thee. Long mayst thou Eve
     What say you to the lady? Love's not love
    Speak sweetly, man, although thy looks be sour.
    And could not get him for my heart to do it.
  LEONTES. Cease; no more.
    King found his heir?
    Young lords, beware; an should the Empress know
    That tyranny, which never quaff'd but blood,
    By a sharp torture.

     That things might change or cease; tears his white hair,

  FLUELLEN. Gower is a good captain, and is good knowledge and
  PRINCE OF WALES. And why not Queen?
    There's not a god left unsolicited.
    In changing hardiment with great Glendower.
  CORIOLANUS. These eyes are not the same I wore in Rome.

     recovered?
    Even this repays me.
    Unless it be while some tormenting dream
    Whom late you have nam'd for consul.

    Things that are past are done with me. 'Tis thus:
  CONSTANCE. He talks to me that never had a son.  
    Leave this faint puling and lament as I do,
    herself; I had other things to have spoken with her too,  
  Claud. Well, I will meet you, so I may have good cheer.

    If any spark of life be yet remaining,
    in my rapier as much as thou didst me in carrying gates. I am in
YOUNG LUCIUS and another with a bundle of weapons, and verses writ upon them
  BARDOLPH
  SICINIUS. There, Coriolanus.
     Or whether since he is advis'd by aught
                     55
  DECIUS. And Cassius too.
    Take thou that too, with multiplying bans.
    When evils are most free? O, then, by day
    And chase the native beauty from his cheek,
  Hot. To the Welsh lady's bed.
    Sorely, to say I did. It is as bitter
    Is fair and honest: in his mistress' name,
    And I had many living to upbraid
    Give me my Romeo; and, when he shall die,
    I knew you not. What news with you so early?
  BUCKINGHAM. Such as my heart doth tremble to unfold:
  I shall receive the money for the same.
Another part of the field.
    myself proudly if I perceive the love come from her. They say too
    I know not how much more, should be demanded,
    And the most merciless that e'er was heard of!
  ALENCON. All France will be replete with mirth and joy

  LUCIUS. He'll then instruct us of this body. Young one,
    from the so seeming Mistress Page, divulge Page himself
    not without wit and judgement. But, Roderigo, if thou hast that
  QUEEN MARGARET. I Call'd thee then vain flourish of my
                     Enter DIOMEDES
  SHALLOW. That we have, that we have, that we have; in faith, Sir
            [Makes a pass through the arras and] kills Polonius.
    Orsino's enemy. A witchcraft drew me hither:
    Hear nothing from him.
    Or foil'd some debile wretch, which without note
  BOY. Ecoutez: comment etes-vous appele?
    Four, or five, women once, that tended me?  

<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  Ham. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there. Be
    And to give order that no manner person
    The pleasant garden of great Italy,
    But where the bull and cow are both milk-white,
    charge.
    I could recover the shore, five and thirty leagues, off
     Are many simples operative, whose power
              Whose face I never saw?
  MESSENGER. So please you, it is true; our Thane is coming.
    Into a tow'ring passion.
    shines everywhere. I would be sorry, sir, but the fool should be
    And pretty traps to catch the petty thieves.
    Are mock'd for valiant ignorance,

    Unto an enemy's triumph.
    And fright him there, and make him tremble there?
    Were but a weak disabling of myself.
  Bene. Yet is this no charm for the toothache. Old signior, walk
  KING PHILIP. What can go well, when we have run so ill.
  Those pretty wrongs that liberty commits,

    That no conditions of our peace can stand.

    you will help to bear it, Sir John, take all, or half, for easing

    Having the fearful flying hare in sight,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Twenty adieus, my frozen Muscovits.
    Myself or Menelaus?
  Claud. Silence is the perfectest herald of joy. I were but little
    Did that they did in envy of great Caesar;
    His heart is fracted and corroborate.
    And will not any way dishonour me.
    In any summer house in Christendom).
    Sin, death, and hell, have set their marks on him,
    That know not how to use ambassadors,
    Then be not poor, but break it and take this.
      None wed the second but who killed the first.
          Enter EGEUS, and his daughter HERMIA, LYSANDER,
  RUTLAND. But 'twas ere I was born.
    And plodded like a man for working-days;
    For I believe they are portentous things
    A marriage 'twixt the Duke of Orleans and
    May spend our wonder too, or take off thine
    More plentiful than tools to do't, struck down
    thirty years.
    By Richard that dead is, the next of blood?
    even road of a blank verse--why, they were never so truly turn'd
    Together sung 'Te Deum.' So she parted,
    How innocent she died; and if your love
     You are my guests. Do me no foul play, friends.
    Whom thou lov'st best. See thou dissemble not.
    Wringing her hands, whose whiteness so became them
  SALERIO. Why, man, I saw Bassanio under sail;
    Yet look to have them buzz to offend thine ears.
  QUICKLY. Troth, sir, all is in His hands above; but
  Edm. This courtesy, forbid thee, shall the Duke
    No; first shall war unpeople this my realm;  
  BEROWNE. The pedant, the braggart, the hedge-priest, the fool, and
Padua. Before LUCENTIO'S house
    To draw my answer from thy articles?
    And trust no agent; for beauty is a witch
    King. I do believe you think what now you speak;
  FALSTAFF. This Davy serves you for good uses; he is your
    Punish my life for tainting of my love!
                    Enter PERCY
    For our approach shall so much dare the field
    While I thy amiable cheeks do coy,
  SHALLOW. I follow, mine host, I follow. Good even and
  AUMERLE. My liege, one word.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  FALSTAFF. I am glad to see you well, good Master Robert Shallow.
  COUNTESS. Well, sir.
     Myself an enemy to all other joys

  MACBETH. So foul and fair a day I have not seen.
  OTHELLO. Keep up your bright swords, for the dew will rust them.
  BEROWNE. Pompey is moved. More Ates, more Ates! Stir them on! stir
  CERES. Tell me, heavenly bow,
    It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.
    As much as in him lies- from time to time
  DUKE. My very worthy cousin, fairly met!
    'Tis meet he be condemn'd by course of law.

  SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  Fond man, remember that thou hast a
  KING HENRY. They please us well. Lord Marquess, kneel down.
  Apoth. My poverty but not my will consents.
    Quite from himself to God. But now behold
    Which chance to find us. O, my lord, my lord!
    The very mould and frame of hand, nail, finger.
  MIRANDA. More to know
  FIRST WATCH. You are a Roman, are you?
    And to commend their service to his will.
  WARWICK. But that the guilt of murder bucklers thee,
    For chair and dukedom, throne and kingdom, say:
    Which may make you and him to rue at th' other.

    One day shall crown th' alliance on't, so please you,
    As he in his particular act and place
    To be full like me; yet they say we are
  PROTEUS. Why, couldst thou perceive so much from her?
  MRS. PAGE. I cannot tell what the dickens his name is my
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    And if thou dost not hide thee from the bear,
    Thou art a soldier, therefore seldom rich.
    Left in the conduct of the bold Iago,
  King. Gertrude, do not drink.
    He received in the repulse of Tarquin seven hurts i' th' body.
    They are come.

    Shall as a pattern or a measure live
    Thy grave is digg'd already in the earth.
  SIMPCOX. Saunder Simpcox, an if it please you, master.
    With words, fair looks, and liberality?
  FALSTAFF. Come, let me pour in some sack to the Thames
    And this, so sole and so unmatchable,
  CRESSIDA. And you this glove. When shall I see you?
    O love, be moderate, allay thy ecstasy,
  RODERIGO. Tush, never tell me! I take it much unkindly
    truth will come to light; murder cannot be hid long; a man's son
    Embowell'd of their doctrine, have let off  
      Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands,
    Tell them how Edward put to death a citizen
   And to the coffers of the King, beside,
  PAGE. Nay, follow him, gentlemen; see the issue of his
    Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,  
    It is the lesser blot, modesty finds,
                     148
  GARDINER, BISHOP OF WINCHESTER
    The unaccustom'd terror of this night,
    Lies he not bed-rid, and again does nothing  
    No, I will speak as liberal as the north;

  IDEN. I was, an't like your Majesty.
    You would have slipp'd like him; but he, like you,

    There wants no diligence in seeking him,
  What freezings have I felt, what dark days seen!
    Knacks, trifles, nosegays, sweetmeats- messengers
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  ANDROMACHE, wife to Hector
  Whilst my poor lips which should that harvest reap,

  MARCIUS. I am glad on't; then we shall ha' means to vent
    Bocchus, the king of Libya; Archelaus
    For the sea's worth. But, look! What lights come yond?
  LUCIUS' SERVANT. Ha! Is not that his steward muffled so?
          There had made a lasting spring.
    If Marcus did not name the word of hands!
    On your displeasure's peril, and on mine,
Scene IV.
    Hoo! hearts, tongues, figures, scribes, bards, poets, cannot  
  AGUECHEEK. Marry, I saw your niece do more favours to the Count's
    Uncouple here, and let us make a bay,
    Then if he thrive and I be cast away,
  ANTONIO. Thou know'st that all my fortunes are at sea;
          Into Hey nonny, nonny.
  LAUNCE. Marry, after they clos'd in earnest, they parted very
                                                 Exeunt Players.
    without the verse, and therefore stood lamely in the verse.
  JULIET. Mutually.
  ROSALIND. The little strength that I have, I would it were with
    His crown bequeathing to his banish'd brother,
    Of boundless tongue, who late hath beat her husband,
    By him that shall succeed.
                                                Exeunt severally
    To see thy noble uncle thus distract?
  Which vulgar scandal stamped upon my brow,
  TAMORA. But when ye have the honey we desire,
    Edward and Richard, you shall stay with me;
                        Enter a MESSENGER
  CANIDIUS. Marcus Octavius, Marcus Justeius,
    In the contempt and anger of his lip!
  Rom. This shall determine that.
  SECOND WITCH. Demand.
    John. By the mass, I have drunk too much sack at supper. A good
  SPEED. And that letter hath she deliver'd, and there an end.
  ROSALIND. Never talk to me; I will weep.
  CLEOPATRA. Courteous lord, one word.
    Let housewives make a skillet of my helm,
  FIRST SENATOR. But, Othello, speak.
    Is worthy praise; but shall I speak my conscience?
    Your sudden approbation.
    Cardinal of York, are join'd with me their servant
    Than in their countenance. Will you hear the letter?
    to a bad voice?
    A slave that still an end turns me to shame!  
OFFICER. Masters, let him go;
    This fair alliance quickly shall can home
Enter SIR JOHN FALSTAFF, with his PAGE bearing his sword and buckler
    Would the nobility lay aside their ruth
  CRESSIDA. I'll fetch you one.                                  Exit
    Is that lead slow which is fir'd from a gun?
    I would not take a knighthood for my fortune.
    Where nothing lives but crosses, cares, and grief.
    And thou dismemb'red with thine own defence.
    With juice of balm and every precious flower;
    Though some of you, with Pilate, wash your hands,
    My grandsire, well advis'd, hath sent by me
  PLANTAGENET. Discover more at large what cause that was,
  Ham. A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat
    Between the King and Katharine?
  WIDOW. Thus I conceive by him.
    Erroneous, mutinous, and unnatural,
    A foe to tyrants, and my country's friend.
  No, let me be obsequious in thy heart,

    The jewel that we find, we stoop and take't,
  AIALVOLIO. 'Some are born great,'-
  QUEEN. With signs of war about his aged neck.
  DUCHESS. I am their father's mother; I will see them.
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
    Let me lodge Lichas on the horns o' th' moon,
  CONSTANCE. Yes, that I will; and wherefore will I do it?
    Whose speechless song being many, seeming one,
France. The FRENCH KING'S camp
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Will lug your priests and servants from your sides,

            Of me and all that I can make;
    Than at the strangeness of it.
  BUCKINGHAM. Good time of day unto your royal Grace!
    A hundred times and oft'ner, in my sleep,
     Thou must be patient. We came crying hither;
  DICK. Why dost thou quiver, man?
    O, above measure false!
    Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
  SUFFOLK. 'Tis the right ring, by heav'n. I told ye all,
  FORD. That will be excellent. I'll go buy them vizards.
    His prayers are full of false hypocrisy;
    Than honesty to honesty engaged
A tent in the French camp.
    A new hell in himself.
    To see you here before me. O my soul's joy!

WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    For every man that Bolingbroke hath press'd
    Most incident to maids; bold oxlips, and

    This tablet lay upon his breast, wherein
  AUMERLE. I do beseech you, pardon me; I may not show it.  
under the state. Enter LORD CHANCELLOR, places himself at the upper end
    Is all as monstrous to our human reason
    Nature would not invest herself in such shadowing passion without
    And of opposed natures.
  CALIBAN. Pray you, tread softly, that the blind mole may not

            strain or two to the hautboys, and cease
  SECOND SENATOR. Throw thy glove,
    Thy master now lies thinking on his bed
    As thou shalt reign but by their sufferance.
    Which gave advantage to an ancient soldier-
  BELARIUS. Peace, peace! see further. He eyes us not; forbear.
  TALBOT. Shame to the Duke of Burgundy and thee!
    Attach thee as a traitorous innovator,

    The farced tide running fore the king,
    When they did say, "God bless us!"
  BLUNT. Unless I have mista'en his colours much-

    And faster bound to Aaron's charming eyes
    O, now, sweet boy, give them their latest kiss!
    To let him spend his time no more at home,
  FOOL. Nor thou altogether a wise man.
    With honours like himself.                 [CORIOLANUS sits]
  Ham. Nay, but to live
  KING RICHARD. Well, as you guess?
    To our own lips. He's here in double trust:
    Who shortly also died; for whose dear love,
    Ne'er let my heart know merry cheer indeed
    Marcius for being proud?
    And, which is more, she is not so divine,
    Unlawfully made drunk with innocent blood.  
    All your true followers out.  
    Whose learning and good letters peace hath tutor'd,
    Fell by our servants, by those men we lov'd most-
  FORD. Pray you go, Master Page.
    That Neptune's arms, who clippeth thee about,

    Than his that shakes for age and feebleness.

    Things base and vile, holding no quantity,
  EMILIA. [Within.] O, good my lord, I would speak a word with you!
    That lie shall lie so heavy on my sword
  King. Stay, give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
    And once again bestride our foaming steeds,
    In so entitling me; and no less honest
    On pain to be found false and recreant,  
  FORD. Indeed she is.
    If he arise, be mock'd and wond'red at.
    Marry, and amen. How sound is she asleep!
    With such a hell of pain and world of charge;
    For 'tis a cause that hath no mean dependence
    Moon! A most poor credulous monster! Well drawn,  
    the devil.
    Thy spirits all of comfort! Fare thee well.
    But all the whole inheritance I give
    her honesty, and achieves her goodness.
    Hold, take thou this, my sweet, and give me thine,
    Deliver up my Lord of Westmoreland.
     We sweat and bleed: the friend hath lost his friend;
  CAESAR. Farewell, farewell!                   [Kisses OCTAVIA]
    And when the work of generation was
    And purge th' obstructions which begin to stop
    it on him. It is now high supper-time, and the night grows to
    the other casual; a cunning thief, or a that-way-accomplish'd
    Whereof what's past is prologue, what to come
  That thus so madly thou didst answer me?
  MENENIUS. Pray you be gone.

1611
    Even to the very quality of my lord.
    Ties up my tongue and will not let me speak.

    This night you shall behold him at our feast.
  KING RICHARD. The sun will not be seen to-day;
    My heart doth joy that yet in all my life
    Glory grows guilty of detested crimes,
    Paris should ne'er retract what he hath done
  Prince. Come, Montague; for thou art early up
    I have follow'd thee to this! But we do lance
    Let's shut our gates and sleep. Manhood and honour
  KING HENRY. The treasury of everlasting joy!
  MACBETH. The labor we delight in physics pain.
  MARTIUS. Why dost not comfort me, and help me out
    Where I may not remove nor be removed.
    The justice of your hearts will thereto ad
    Of the defendant; and thou hast incurr'd
    Bend their best studies, heartily request
  PROVOST. Are you agreed?
    And turn preordinance and first decree
    That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
    And that the Lord of Westmoreland shall maintain.
    Rebellion in this laud shall lose his sway,
  WILLIAMS. Thou dar'st as well be hang'd.
    His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
  KING HENRY. If ever I live to see it, I will challenge it.
  QUEEN MARGARET. I call thee not.
  Reg. I cannot think my sister in the least
    Hippolyta, I woo'd thee with my sword,  
    Your tenants, friends, and neighbouring gentlemen.
                                                         Exeunt.
  Leon. What shall become of this? What will this do?
    There was a haberdasher's wife of small wit near him, that
  DUKE. The more degenerate and base art thou
    And will you rent our ancient love asunder,
    Would none but I might venge my cousin's death!
    I have one word to say to you. Look you, my good lord,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    There's business in these faces. Why so sadly
  EVANS. Leave your prabbles, oman. What is the focative
  TIMON. I thank them; and would send them back the plague,
  KING RICHARD. I had forgot myself; am I not King?
  DUKE. Come hither, Mariana.
    coming after to warm them. Now were not I a little pot and soon
    To make a dulcet and a heavenly sound;

  CONSTANCE. No, no, I will not, having breath to cry.
    My lord, look here! Look here, Lavinia!

    To say 'Beseech you, cease.' You have made fair hands,
    He goes away in a cloud. Call him, call him.
    My lord hath interest in them, I will keep them
SCENE IX.
  BRAKENBURY. What one, my lord?
    In measure rain thy joy, scant this excess!
    Nay, for a need, thus far come near my person:
    Whose conscience with injustice is corrupted.
                        Enter a MESSENGER
    [To VIOLA] Boy, thou hast said to me a thousand times
    coursers for cousins, and gennets for germans.
    The death of each day's life, sore labor's bath,
  FLAVIUS. Assurance bless your thoughts!
  SHALLOW. Ay, there's the point, sir.

    They have done my poor house grace; for which I pay 'em  
  PROTEUS. O, sir, I find her milder than she was;
    Of hope, not longing, mine Italian brain
    And deal with others better.
    CLARENCE. It cannot be; for he bewept my fortune
    I cannot, 'twixt the heaven and the main,
  The roses fearfully on thorns did stand,
    would beat his offenseless dog to affright an imperious lion. Sue
  DESDEMONA. Ay, but not yet to die.
                            Enter BAPTISTA
    And seeing ignorance is the curse of God,
    Let not your private discord keep away
    And will, no doubt, shortly be rid of me.

          BOLINGBROKE or SOUTHWELL reads: 'Conjuro te,' &c.
    The other, that he do record a gift,
    And leads the will to desperate undertakings
England
  PROTEUS. As much as I can do I will effect.
    Misus'd ere us'd, by times ill-us'd o'erpast.
  LORENZO. 'Tis now but four o'clock; we have two hours
    That can with some discretion do my business,
    And won thy love doing thee injuries;
    And I'll devise a mean to draw the Moor
    Or voluntary dotage of some mistress,
Scene II.
    The element they liv'd in. In his livery
    Why would he for the momentary trick
    The aptest way for safety and revenge.
  APEMANTUS. I scorn thy meat; 't'would choke me, for I should ne'er
  LUCIO. My lord, I know him; 'tis a meddling friar.
  In this the madman justly chargeth them.
    Hanging and wiving goes by destiny.
    mother; thus when I shun Scylla, your father, I fall into
Enter VOLUMNIA and VIRGILIA, mother and wife to MARCIUS;
    Out of one side her happy minion,
    Shall come apparell'd in more precious habit,
Act II. Scene I.
    Enforce him with his envy to the people,
    Will make him fly an ordinary pitch,
  MALCOLM. He's worth more sorrow,
  RODERIGO. Iago!  
  BRUTUS. Then follow me and give me audience, friends.
  CLOWN. Now the melancholy god protect thee; and the tailor make thy
  FIRST SOLDIER. I'll tell the news. Here comes the general.
    We had not been thus shamefully surpris'd.
    Earl of Northumberland, he slew thy father;
    That could endure the toothache patiently,  
    begins my sadness. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and
  FIRST CITIZEN. Your belly's answer- What?
    Fill all thy bones with aches, make thee roar,
  BRUTUS. I say you are not.  
    When shrill-tongu'd Fulvia scolds. The messengers!
    Or else break out in peevish jealousies,
  TRINCULO. I took him to be kill'd with a thunderstroke.  
    if thy pocket were enrich'd with any other injuries but these, I
  THESEUS. The kinder we, to give them thanks for nothing.
  Hor. If your mind dislike anything, obey it. I will forestall their
    I know she is not; for this match made up
    To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
  Even so being full of your ne'er-cloying sweetness,
    fire-shovel; I knew by that piece of service the men would carry
    Which on thy royal party granted once,

    A stage, where every man must play a part,
    Within two days for this.
  YORK. O Clifford, but bethink thee once again,
    Envy and base opinion set against 'em,
  MRS. FORD. I your lady, Sir John? Alas, I should be a pitiful
    undone for ever; for if Hector break not his neck i' th' combat,
    This airy charm is for, I'll break my staff,
    Scorn and derision never come in tears.
                                          Falls on the bed, and dies.
    Values itself so highly that to her
  LONGAVILLE. His leg is too big for Hector's.
  YORK. He dies; we lose; I break my warlike word.  
  CITIZEN. And you.
    Where we shall find him most conveniently.           Exeunt.
    And pay them when you part.
  PROVOST. Away, sir; you must go.
    May take off some extremity, which to read  
  Serv. Perhaps you have learned it without book. But I pray, can you
    Yet to beat down these rebels here at home.

    The dogs did yell; put el to sore, then sorel jumps from thicket-
    should enter, if your trade be to her.
    Or to the place of diff'rence call the swords
  QUEEN MARGARET. Those gracious words revive my drooping thoughts
    Had you not fully laid my state before me,

    And loses that it works for.
  SLY. Are you my wife, and will not call me husband?
    He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
    Four nights will quickly dream away the time;
    Some tardy cripple bare the countermand
    Which I did think with slower foot came on,
     Had challeng'd pity of them. Was this a face
    Still a-repairing, ever out of frame,
  FALSTAFF. I am old, I am old.
  Oph. I do not know, my lord, what I should think,
  Knight. Sir, he answered me in the roundest manner, he would not.
    Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
    And lands restor'd again be freely granted;
    Myself have spoke in vain.
    Of woman in me. Now from head to foot
    the right arched beauty of the brow that becomes the
    Sound drums and trumpets. Farewell, sour annoy!
    The nature of your griefs; and whereupon
  Reg. What need one?
    Hourly joys be still upon you!
    I will not be thy executioner.
  MALCOLM. What I believe, I'll wall;
           But when I came unto my beds,
  WARWICK. 'Twas I that gave the kingdom to thy brother.
  Ham. No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty
  LONGAVILLE. One word in private with you ere I die.
  SECOND WITCH. Cool it with a baboon's blood,
    You know that you are Brutus that speaks this,
    have in my whole five. Was I with you there for the goose?
     In three our kingdom; and 'tis our fast intent
Rousillon. The COUNT'S palace
Near Elsinore.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  Mer. But I'll be hang'd, sir, if he wear your livery.
    The soldiers should have toss'd me on their pikes
    Where, how, how oft, how long ago, and when
    Reproach and everlasting shame
  LORD BARDOLPH. I cannot think, my lord, your son is dead.
    All my sad captains; fill our bowls once more;  
    My soul the faithfull'st off'rings hath breath'd out
    Take your own way.
    this letter will tell you more.
    will catch them.
    Beneath the visiting moon.                          [Swoons]
  MENENIUS. Go, get you to your house; be gone, away.


<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    quarrel, but nothing wherefore. O God, that men should put an
    Calm thee, and bear the faults of Titus' age,
                                   Pours the poison in his ears.
    Acquaint you with the perfect spy o' the time,
  SUFFOLK. How is the King employ'd?
    Both to defend my loyalty and truth
    man that were to sleep your sleep, and a hangman to help him to
    feign.
    up ever since he was three years old, and his name is Tranio.
  Mar. You shall not go, my lord.
    Ajax prouder than the cur Achilles, and will not arm to-day;
    honourable gentleman.
    Excuse me so, coming too short of thanks
  BOLINGBROKE. Why, Bishop, is Norfolk dead?
  GAOLER. I'll be hang'd then.
    Must lave our honors in these flattering streams,
    What curious eye doth quote deformities?
    Of nature and of nations speak aloud
  An English Doctor
the CONSTABLE OF FRANCE, and others

    On some great sudden hest. O, what portents are these?
    Doth by the idle comments that it makes
    leave thee. Be not too familiar with Poins; for he misuses thy
    So workmanly the blood and tears are drawn.
    A speedy power to encounter you, my lord,
  KING HENRY. Open your gates. [Exit GOVERNOR] Come, uncle Exeter,
    tenth part of one. They that have the voice of lions and the act

    But by thy help to this distressed queen?
    To say so to my husband.
  BUCKINGHAM. My lord-
    Speak to me.
    Either, heav'n, with lightning strike the murd'rer dead;
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Swear like a ruffian and demean himself
    Or I am mad, or else this is a dream.
                                                         Exeunt.
    I know not how to tell thee who I am.
    me. What say you to't, Sir John?
     And, like a scurvy politician, seem
    Or what his death will bring us.
      Trumpet sounds. Enter citizens upon the walls

  Kent. Strike, you slave! Stand, rogue! Stand, you neat slave!
     With plenteous rivers and wide-skirted meads,
    Shall we dance now the Egyptian Bacchanals
    by too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure!
    What! shall we curse the planets of mishap
  JAQUES. I have neither the scholar's melancholy, which is
  SCARUS. On our side like the token'd pestilence,
  LUCIUS. O barbarous beastly villains like thyself!
  SON. Nay, how will you do for a husband?
  KING RICHARD. Cold friends to me. What do they in the
    Which I left with her?
  CLEOPATRA. O Caesar, what a wounding shame is this,
    We charge you, in the name of God, take heed;
    In holier shapes; for there is boundless theft
    Remove these thoughts from you; the which before
    Is not to leave't undone, but keep't unknown.
  Bene. Well, you are a rare parrot-teacher.
  Capt. The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras.
    To choke it in the utt'rance. So our virtues
    When, for some trifling present, you have bid me

    Do through the clouds behold this present hour,
  MARCUS. Which of your hands hath not defended Rome
  KING RICHARD. Then he disdains to shine; for by the book

    Should say 'Be good to Rome'- they charg'd him even  

    That I, unworthy body as I am,
    Good faith, I am no wiser than a daw.

  Where all the treasure of thy lusty days;
    Brother, good day. What means this armed guard
    easily. She was in his company at Page's house, and what
    By sea and land, supplying every stage
    choice. Now sir, this granted- as it is a most pregnant and
  Hero. None, my lord.
    'em from me, with this reason: his master would be serv'd
  Stray'd his affection in unlawful love?
    To entertain great England's lawful king.
    Being distress'd, was by that wretch betray'd
    Immortal longings in me. Now no more
    Lead our first battle. Worthy Macduff and we
    And in a moment makes them desolate.
    That blabb'd them with such pleasing eloquence

    Without suspicion.
    How often said my dignity would last
  Mine eye hath played the painter and hath stelled,
    After your late tossing on the breaking seas?
    Hence will I drag thee headlong by the heels  
  HASTINGS. Good time of day unto my gracious lord!

    Shut door upon me, and so give me up
  QUEEN. Enough, sweet Suffolk, thou torment'st thyself;
    And I shall here abide the hourly shot
    For each true word a blister, and each false
    That from this golden rigol hath divorc'd
  QUICKLY. Will I? I' faith, that we will; and I will tell your
    One time will owe another.
  SHALLOW. It will be found so, Master Page. Master Doctor
  LAFEU. This woman's an easy glove, my lord; she goes of and on at

    Tell me how thy lady does.
    And give me signs of future accidents;             [Thunder]
    Have tongue to charge me with.
    Rouse up revenge from ebon den with fell Alecto's snake,
  SILVIA. Had I been seized by a hungry lion,  
    entertain'st my love, let it appear in thy smiling; thy smiles
    And fall into our rustic revelry.
  Jul. What man art thou that, thus bescreen'd in night,
  BAPTISTA. How now, my friend! Why dost thou look so pale?
  OTHELLO.                                 With all my heart.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
then a GENTLEMAN USHER bareheaded, accompanied with a SERGEANT-AT-ARMS

    But, mother, I am not Sir Robert's son:
         For if the King like not the comedy,
    friends; for if you will be married to-morrow, you shall; and to
  ALCIBIADES. Noble Timon,

  COSTARD. I'll do it in my shirt.
    Blood hath bought blood, and blows have answer'd blows;
  SECOND MURDERER. And he that hath commanded is our
    A madman so long, now a fool. What, think'st
  KING RICHARD. Join not with grief, fair woman, do not so,
    always with my heart, la! with my heart.
    Which, on more view of many, mine, being one,
    a woman's fitness comes by fits. Therein I must play the workman.
  In either's aptness, as it best deceives,
         And Tom bears logs into the hall,
  THERSITES. Nay, but regard him well.
    Good Enobarbus, make yourself my guest
  Priest. No more be done.
    have misused the King's press damnably. I have got in exchange of
Enter the QUEEN and two LADIES
  KING. 'Tis seldom when the bee doth leave her comb
    Larding the plain; and by his bloody side,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    And bids you, in the bowels of the Lord,
    Which can interpret farther; only I say
    Prouder than rustling in unpaid-for silk:
    You thus employ'd, I will go root away
    let loose my opinion; hold it no longer: this is no
    Even with his pestilent scythe.     Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS

  CORIN. Into a thousand that I have forgotten.
  ANTONIO. Then let us both be sudden.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  Lear. Are you our daughter?
  Oph. He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
    shoes, or such shoes as my toes look through the overleather.
  Bora. So did I too, and he swore he would marry her tonight.
    May hourly fall upon ye!
      from his state, takes her up, kisses and placeth her  
    No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
  LUCIO. Assay the pow'r you have.
    Or dive into the bottom of the deep,
  Lear. I'll tell thee. [To Goneril] Life and death! I am asham'd
    I'll to the wars, she to her single sorrow.
    Shall be engrav'd the sack of Orleans,
    Had time coher'd with place, or place with wishing,
    About the hour of eight-which he himself

  GREMIO. Tut, she's a lamb, a dove, a fool, to him!
    That sleep and feeding may prorogue his honour
    That we have tried the utmost of our friends,
  AGRIPPA. Caesar, I shall.                                 Exit
    I have to use. Thy frank election make;

    It was a bare petition of a state
    How proud I am of thee and of thy gifts
    There weep, and leave it crying; and, for the babe
    No tongue! All eyes! Be silent.                 [Soft music]
    Because you are not of our quality,
    And so I leave you both-  [Aside]  like bloody villains.
  NATHANIEL. How now, old lad!
    Than your consent gives strength to make it fly.
    so I shall catch the fly, your cousin, in the latter end, and she

  Mer. O, then I see Queen Mab hath been with you.
    With distinct breath and consign'd kisses to them,
    Since lion vile hath here deflower'd my dear;  
    Older in practice, abler than yourself
    And reason coldly of your grievances,
    here
  DIOMEDES. O, be not mov'd, Prince Troilus.
WESTMORELAND, and other LORDS; at another, the FRENCH KING, QUEEN ISABEL,
    She's my good lady and will conceive, I hope,
    My breast I'll burst with straining of my courage.  
    letter, gift after gift; smelling so sweetly, all musk, and so
  Bur. Pardon me, royal sir.
    As shall to thee blot out what wrongs were theirs
  MENENIUS. All's well, and might have been much better
    Grow great by your example and put on  
  PATROCLUS. Achilles bids me say he is much sorry
    Pray you speak with me. You shall at least
  BUTTS. I think your Highness saw this many a day.
  TAMORA. Thus, in this strange and sad habiliment,
    hang out for the lion's claws. And, most dear actors, eat no
    To do you rest, a thousand deaths would die.
    of this knave-Ford, on whom to-night I will be revenged,
  Ben. It was. What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?
    Then mark th' inducement. Thus it came-give heed to't:
    To change true rules for odd inventions.
    cousin, in any reason.

    And, in possession, twenty thousand crowns.
    That all without desert have frown'd on me;
    commoners and inland petty spirits muster me all to their
    name out of his heart, and turn him going.
    To win the Moor again? For 'tis most easy
  Glou. Hath he never before sounded you in this business?
  WIDOW. You came, I think, from France?
    Fortunate mistress- let my prophecy
    Born in Northamptonshire, and eldest son,
    Thyself and office deftly show!
  IAGO. Honest, my lord?
    She shall not long continue love to him.
  OXFORD. Here pitch our battle; hence we will not budge.
  Capt. Against some part of Poland.  
England. Before the King's palace.
    yet complainest thou of obstruction?
    Six of his labours you'd have done, and sav'd
    You have some sick offense within your mind,
    But must be look'd to speedily and strongly.
    if you saw him.
  FIRST CITIZEN. So stood the state when Henry the Sixth
  Prince. What manner of man, an it like your Majesty?
  IAGO. O, no; he goes into Mauritania, and takes away with him the
    an old cloak makes a new jerkin; a wither'd serving-man a  
    And blood of your begetting.
  CAESAR. I must be laugh'd at
    John] Let me bid you welcome, my lord. Being reconciled to the
    equivocation will undo us. By the Lord, Horatio, this three years
    keep to myself; but first let me tell ye, if ye should lead her

    cross-garter'd; and in this she manifests herself to my love, and
  Sex. And this is more, masters, than you can deny. Prince John is
[Enter Nurse.]
    And set them upright at their dear friends' door
    And he's compos'd of harshness. I must remove
    But if we live we'll be as sharp with you.
Alarums. MATTHEW GOFFE is slain, and all the rest.  Then enter JACK CADE,
  CLIFFORD. Urge it no more; lest that instead of words
    Giving my verdict on the white rose side.
    as ours are; yet, in reason, no man should possess him with any
    Were as seven vials of his sacred blood,
    What cheer? How is't with you, best brother?
    That did but show thee, of a fool, inconstant,
    But do not go with it!
    Which, as I take't, we shall; for his best force
    A parley, sirrah, to George of Clarence.
    to their queen.
    And, to be brief, my practice so prevail'd
  SILVIA. Sir Proteus, as I take it.
    A falsehood, in its contrary as great
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. We will read it, I swear.
    assigns, and three liberal-conceited carriages: that's the French
    Will bear no color for the thing he is,
    Hath with his forged letters- damn'd Pisanio-
  As subject to time's love or to time's hate,

  DUCHESS. I prithee, pretty York, who told thee this?
    else, sir, no more tribute, pray you now.
    As he regards his aged father's life.
    thence, which his will fashion to fall out between twelve and
    almost into another man.
    Richard, that robb'd the lion of his heart

  FALSTAFF. I'll follow you, good Master Robert Shallow.

  And so much less of shame in me remains
    With no less presence, but with much more love,  
    Hath to it circumstantial branches, which
    I am as fair now as I was erewhile.
  SECOND SERVANT. Will't please your Mightiness to wash your hands?
  SUFFOLK. My amen to't!
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    one side.  
    his purse, such a man would win any woman in the world--if 'a
    Thee here in dark to be his paramour?
    The smallest fear or doubt of her revolt;
  Which though it alter not love's sole effect,
    that. She was of Carthage, not of Tunis.
Enter Horatio with an Attendant.

  OTHELLO.             I do believe 'twas he.
                          Enter a MESSENGER
    Swills your warm blood like wash, and makes his trough
    Well, I'll repent, and that suddenly, while I am in some liking.
  IMOGEN. 'Mongst friends,
    By God, I cannot flatter, I defy
  KING HENRY. [Aside] All will revolt from me, and turn to him.

    God give us leisure for these rites of love!
    For his right noble mind, illustrious virtue,
  BRUTUS. The games are done, and Caesar is returning.
    Is else devoted, I am but a shadow;  
  But wherefore do not you a mightier way
London. The Palace.
  TALBOT. Then here I take my leave of thee, fair son,
  CORIOLANUS. I do owe them still
     That dotage gives it.
    We then can do't at land.
Enter two other SENATORS with a MESSENGER
    I'll point you where you shall have such receiving

    O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
    Spare England, for it is your native coast.
    That hurts by easing. But to the quick o' th' ulcer!
  HUBERT. Come, boy, prepare yourself.
    But dust was thrown upon his sacred head;
    And I'll direct thee how thou shalt escape
  ANGELO. 'Tis one thing to be tempted, Escalus,
    before the King; and not the worst of the three but jumps twelve
  And nice affections wavering stood in doubt
    proof.
  IMOGEN. I see you're angry.
  EVANS. By yea and no, I think the oman is a witch indeed; I
    And drop into the rotten mouth of death.
    What should I say to him? I was then frugal of my mirth.
    First, madam, I entreat true peace of you,
  BRABANTIO. Not I. What are you?
  Mer. No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a church door;
  When proud-pied April (dressed in all his trim)
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Even at my gates, with ranks of foreign pow'rs;
    Of all the gentry; for the most part such
  DOLL. Come, you thin thing! come, you rascal!
    Whiter than new snow upon a raven's back.
    Doth flourish the deceit. Come, let us go;
                                                          Exit GURNEY
  ARMADO. Arts-man, preambulate; we will be singuled from the

PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  SHALLOW. Yea, Davy; I will use him well. A friend i' th' court is
    A workman in't.
  SPEED. How now, Signior Launce! What news with your mastership?
  BASSANIO. I like not fair terms and a villain's mind.
    With raven's feather from unwholesome fen
             Re-enter MENENIUS with BRUTUS and SICINIUS
    That basely fled when noble Talbot stood.
    She's otherwise, I'll keep my stables where
                                       Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
    By circumstance but to acquit myself.
    To buy a slobb'ry and a dirty farm

    Made such a sinner of his memory,
    O none but unthrifts, dear my love you know,
  LEONARDO. Yonder, sir, he walks.                          Exit
  PYRAMUS. Think what thou wilt, I am thy lover's grace;

    Cut me to pieces with thy keen conceit;
  One word more, I beseech you. If you be not too much cloy'd with fat
    What says Lord Warwick? Shall we after them?
    And whatsoe'er you will employ me in-

  Gads. Give me thy hand. Thou shalt have a share in our purchase, as
  OLIVIA. Of what personage and years is he?
  JOHN. True; and yet it is said 'Labour in thy vocation'; which is
    'Ods pittikins! can it be six mile yet?
    If that my cousin king be King in England,  
    They'll tell the clock to any business that
    Who is your sister's son, Mark Antony.
    Withal obdurate, do not hear him plead;
    Too terrible for the ear. The time has been,
    Yet in some sort they are better than the Tribunes,
  Alb. The weight of this sad time we must obey,
  LEONTES. There is no truth at all i' th' oracle.
    That you are fool'd, discarded, and shook off
    To lighten all this isle?-I'll to the King
  Gent. No, since.
    bred.
    Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
    And yet I do thee wrong to mind thee of it,
    You use her well; the world may laugh again,
  BERTRAM. Come, come, no more of that.
    Of all that may concern thy love affairs.
    There's meaning in thy snores.
    Hast eat thy bearer up.' Thus, my most royal liege,
    O husband, hear me! ay, alack, how new
    That's like my brother's fault. If it confess
    Yet something leads me forth.
    For which I wait for money.
  Capt. They are of Norway, sir.
     blessing! Here's a night pities nether wise men nor fools.
    Let me redeem my brothers both from death.  
    For thus popp'd Paris in his hardiment,
    The cost of princes on unworthy shoulders?
    For mine's beyond beyond!-say, and speak thick-
    My captain and my emperor, let me say,
    The kindred of the Queen, must die at Pomfret.
   discuss the same in French unto him.
    For Paris, was it? Speak.
    Because in quarrel of the house of York
  SECOND COMMONER. Truly, sir, in respect of a fine workman, I am
    Betwixt that Holmedon and this seat of ours,
    They vex me past my patience. Pray you pass on.
    Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
  SILVIUS. So please you, for I never heard it yet;
    As much in private, and I'll bid adieu.
    And jealous Oberon would have the child
    For I presume brave Hector would not lose
    have been into Thames, ere I will leave her thus. Her
    The worthy gentleman did lose his life.
    way.
    And he that wears the crown immortally
    Is foul as slander.
  ANTONY. Mine nightingale,
    Have pluck'd my nipple from his boneless gums
    Ah, Rome! Well, well, I made thee miserable
    And how shall we continue Claudio,
  But here's a villain that would face me down
    I will not be afraid of death and bane
  PETRUCHIO. Sir, understand you this of me, in sooth:
    To part the Queen's proud kindred from the Prince.
    knight.
    cannot swear, but it checks him; a man cannot lie with his
                     Enter ARIEL, invisible
    And on the sudden dropp'd.
  TALBOT. Thy father's charge shall clear thee from that stain.
  KING RICHARD. But in your daughter's womb I bury them;
  WARWICK. My lord, I found the Prince in the next room,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    In honourable terms; nay, he can sing
  AGUECHEEK. O, 'twill be admirable!
    Ajax, your guard, stays to conduct you home.
    Or that for which I live; who once again
    And that craves wary walking. Crown him that,  
  MARIA. Ay, or I would these hands might never part.
    And, for he understands you are in arms,
  CHARMIAN. Good now, some excellent fortune! Let me be married to
    fairy, has done little better than play'd the Jack with us.
    And rather father thee than master thee.
    The Queen is put in anger. Y'are excus'd.
    Ere the first sacrifice, within this hour,
    What law does vouch mine own.
  CALIBAN. Ha, ha, ha!
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  OTHELLO. I have another weapon in this chamber;
    That brought thee to this world.
    Honey, you shall be well desired in Cyprus;

                  Enter DUKE, disguised as before
    that intends to laughter, more than I invent or is invented on
    When Biondello comes, he waits on thee;
    As ending anthem of my endless dolour.
    And give him half; and, for thy vigour,
  KING RICHARD. And say, what store of parting tears were shed?
    And say there is much kindness in the Jew.
    gentlemen my friends you were good soldiers and tall fellows;
  AGUECHEEK. Are you full of them?
    Ripe for exploits and mighty enterprises.
                          Re-enter DAVY
  FIRST LORD. This your request
LUCIANA. She never reprehended him but mildly,
    This honourable bounty shall belong.
  Alb. Fall and cease!
  Beat. I took no more pains for those thanks than you take pains to
  And gain a husband by his liberty.
  COUNTESS. I say I am your mother.
    And all my mother came into mine eyes
    Away from light steals home my heavy son
    What feast is toward in thine eternal cell
  CLOWN. Do not desire to see this letter.

    That they pass by me as the idle wind
    I would adventure.


    He sends you not to murder me for this,
    This mutiny were better put in hazard
              Enter NORTHUMBERLAND

    Methought a serpent eat my heart away,
  Jul. Nurse, will you go with me into my closet
    My father's bears more toward the market-place;
  SHEPHERD. Name of mercy, when was this, boy?
    Vouchsafe to show the sunshine of your face,
    I do detest false, perjur'd Proteus.
    Send us your prisoners, or you will hear of it.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Where Spain?
    And I am tied to be obedient-
  And all the conduits of my blood froze up,

    That he's undrown'd.
    O monstrous world! Take note, take note, O world,
  CAIUS. By gar, then I have as much mockvater as de Englishman.  
  GRATIANO. Nay, but I bar to-night; you shall not gauge me
    And will return to Venice. Hence, avaunt!
  OTHELLO. Nay, that's certain. But yet the pity of it, Iago!
  SNUG, a joiner
    For it is none but thine.
  IACHIMO. Yours, whom in constancy you think stands so safe. I will
  MACBETH. Stay, you imperfect speakers, tell me more.
  KING HENRY. Ah, what a sign it is of evil life
  GONZALO. It is foul weather in us all, good sir,
    will go one way or other. Howsoever, he shall pay for me ere he

    And draw no swords but what are sanctified.
    Doth noise abroad Navarre hath made a vow,
    And Antenorides, with massy staples
  Both. My lord, we will not.
    in God's name, and leave us. [Exit HUME] Mother Jourdain, be you
    Stand these poor people's friend, and urge the King
  KING RICHARD. Even so. How think you of it?
  GRUMIO. Knock you here, sir? Why, sir, what am I, sir, that I
  KING RICHARD THE SECOND
    And whet on Warwick to this enterprise.
  Ant. Which I will do with confirm'd countenance.
    And Brutus is an honorable man.
  Then let your will attend on their accords.
    I am bound to you.
ABBESS. Ay, but not rough enough.
  MALVOLIO. Fool!
    Didst undertake it? Why hast thou abus'd

  BASSANIO. Well, we shall see your bearing.
    That fashion'd others. And him- O wondrous him!
    Their eyes o'ergalled with recourse of tears;
  REIGNIER.  [To CHARLES]  My lord, you do not well in
    How often have I tempted Suffolk's tongue-
     At gilded butterflies, and hear poor rogues
    Whose hot incursions and great name in arms
    There to be crowned England's royal King;
    In courtesy gives undeserving praise.
  KING HENRY. This battle fares like to the morning's war,
    That Lewis of France is sending over masquers
    Thine own true knight,
  Osw. This ancient ruffian, sir, whose life I have spar'd
  LUCULLUS. Flaminius, I have noted thee always wise. Here's to thee.
    Neglect him not; make use now, and provide
    It were but necessary you were wak'd,
    We should not, when the blood was cool, have threaten'd
    matter.
  COUNTESS. You need but plead your honourable privilege.

  LAUNCELOT. Not so, sir, neither; I know my duty.
  GOBBO. God bless your worship!
    Their watches on unto mine eyes, the outward watch,
    My mind did lose it. But, Demetrius, come;
  BRUTUS. She is dead.
  LADY PERCY, Percy's widow
    happy if I could say how much. Lady, as you are mine, I am yours.
    Let me put in your minds, if you forget,
    The ladies did change favours; and then we,
    Or be accus'd of folly. I shall tell you
    wish'd to see thee ever cross-garter'd. I say, remember, Go to,
    Must it be violent; and as he does conceive
  ANTONY. Tut, I am in their bosoms, and I know
  CELIA. Young gentleman, your spirits are too bold for your years.
    Resume that spirit when you were wont to say,
  SILVIA. Sir Eglamour, a thousand times good morrow!

                 Enter TITUS, below


    sufficient. Three thousand ducats- I think I may take his bond.
  MOTH. Samson, master; he was a man of good carriage, great
    By your own true affections; and that your minds,
  SEMPRONIUS. How! Have they denied him?
    Whose bowels suddenly burst out. The King

    That he misconstrues all that you have done.
    If we do meet again, why, we shall smile;  
  PAROLLES. Bless you, my fortunate lady!
  For ever hous'd where it gets possession.
  Hot. And may be so we shall.
    Pray to the gods to intermit the plague
  BEROWNE. [Descending] Now step I forth to whip hypocrisy,
    Of common-kissing Titan, and forget
    The fatal balls of murdering basilisks;
    He pays the whole, and yet am I not free.
  PISTOL. Qui va la?
    Though daintily brought up, with patience more
    that he hath to strange disguises; as to be a Dutchman to-day, a
    O, he hath kept an evil diet long
    His cupbearer- whom I from meaner form
    [Offers money.] There is so much that thou wilt kill me straight:
  DEMETRIUS. How now, dear sovereign, and our gracious mother!
     Do scald like molten lead.  
    If not to heaven, then hand in hand to hell.
    him a thousand pound.
    The son, compell'd, been butcher to the sire;
    From Tripolis, from Mexico, and England,
    Breaking his oath and resolution like
    see that he be forthcoming.

    Immediately to marry; she hath consented.
    thatch'd house!
    And let this world no longer be a stage
    not be conjoined, I charge you on your souls to utter it.
    Was, for that-young Richard thus remov'd,
    That I have utt'red. Bring me to the test,
  MESSENGER. And I do think she's thirty.
    And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed  
    better.
  PETRUCHIO. You wrong me, Signior Gremio; give me leave.  
    green wound and your ploody coxcomb.
    And the third hour of drowsy morning name.
    And, like a gallant in the brow of youth,
    I do arrest thee, traitor, of high treason;
     go arm'd.
  Ham. Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd
               Enter DEMETRIUS, HELENA following him
    Pray you take note of it; and when you have
  DIOMEDES. Or strange, or self-affected.
    To th' fire i' th' blood. Be more abstemious,
  BRUTUS. Enough, with over measure.
    Love, lend me patience to forbear awhile.
    Lack blood to think on't, and flush youth revolt.
    Fortune's mood, and smell somewhat strong of her strong
    Since you will buckle fortune on my back,
  Pedro. Hath she made her affection known to Benedick?
    The fifth was Edmund Langley, Duke of York;
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
FLAMINIUS waiting to speak with LUCULLUS. Enter SERVANT to him
    With linstock now the devilish cannon touches,
  WIDOW. Though my estate be fall'n, I was well born,
    pass. Yet the scarfs and the bannerets about thee did manifoldly
  VIRGILIA. A crack, madam.
  Prince. Do not think so. You shall not find it so.
    How mean soe'er, that have their honest wills,
    Are now on sale; and at our sheepcote now,
  Dulling my lines, and doing me disgrace.
    Being so great, I have no need to beg.
    One time or other break some gallows' back.
                                                         [Exit.]
                       Enter WILLIAMS
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  BOYET. She hath but one for herself; to desire that were a shame.
    And never show thy head by day nor light.  
    To teach you gamut in a briefer sort,
    All bond and privilege of nature, break!
    minority: his enter and exit shall be strangling a snake; and I
                That such a king should play bo-peep
    Comfort's in heaven; and we are on the earth,
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. But what's the matter?
    Harp on that still- but by our putting on;
    If ever danger do environ thee,
    intercession of such a decay'd dotant as you seem to be? Can you
    That our swift-winged souls may catch the King's,
    If what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Home both in word and deed. Most cruelly
    You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
ADRIANA, wife to Antipholus of Ephesus
    For England go; I will whet on the King.
    one.' 'No,' said I, 'a great wit.' 'Right,' says she, 'a great
SCENE II.
    For she is chang'd, as she had never been.
    Your friar is now your prince. As I was then
    Bowing his head against the steepy mount
    Have so incensed that I am reckless what
  NYM,         "    "   "    "     "
  BRUTUS. Words before blows. Is it so, countrymen?
  Prince. Peace, chewet, peace!
  LEWIS. But is he gracious in the people's eye?
    I think it best you married with the County.
    Aldermen, Citizens, Soldiers, Messengers, Murderers, Keeper
    But far beyond my depth. My high-blown pride
    Which once thou swor'st was worth the looking on;
    till the bell have told eleven. Heaven bless the isle of Cyprus
  WOLSEY. What warlike voice,
    Wretches so quake. They kneel, they kiss the earth;
     Come not between the dragon and his wrath.
  KING RICHARD. Bid my guard watch; leave me.  
    One sees more devils than vast hell can hold;
  What rocky heart to water will not wear?
    It lends a lustre and more great opinion,
    Her mother, even strong against that match
    Owe and succeed thy weakness.  
    Polixenes for Leontes. O thou thing!
  PRINCE OF WALES. Nay, take away this scolding crookback rather.
    before us. Away with her to prison. Go to; no more words. [Exeunt
  SUFFOLK. Be what thou wilt, thou art my prisoner.
  Lear. Vengeance! plague! death! confusion!
    Make us partakers of a little gain
    So, farewell, Talbot; I'll no longer trust thee.  
    do die of it do seldom or never recover.
    O, whither shall we fly from this reproach?
    To suffer with him. Good love, call him back.
    Ah, would the scandal vanish with my life,
  GUIDERIUS. But we saw him dead.

    Into a strumpet's fool. Behold and see.
     dinner, I will not part from thee yet. Dinner, ho, dinner!
  FORD. I do not misdoubt my wife; but I would be loath to
    To stop devoted charitable deeds?
    But who dare tell her so? If I should speak,
     Losses their remedies'- All weary and o'erwatch'd,
    Do as I bid you.- Where's this cup I call'd for?
    On me, that halts and am misshapen thus?
    But the strong base and building of my love

    Whom God hath join'd together; ay, and 'twere pity
    chosen, they are glad to choose me for them; I do it for some
    Stuffs out his vacant garments with his form;
    Take wreak on Rome for this ingratitude,
    Most throughly to be winnowed where my chaff
    My noble girls! Ah, women, women, look,
    The confirmation of my promis'd gift,
  HERALD. I summon your Grace to his Majesty's Parliament,
    But not so citizen a wanton as
  STANLEY. Know, my loving lord,
    Your vessels and your spells provide,
    For I can smooth and fill his aged ears
Enter FALSTAFF, SHALLOW, SILENCE, BARDOLPH, the PAGE, and DAVY
    drunk to bed.
    Or cut his wezand with thy knife. Remember
    Good cousin, give me audience for a while.
    I cry you mercy, sir, and well could wish

  Kent. Royal Lear,
    And this thy son's blood cleaving to my blade

    And for Rome's good. I'll tell thee what- yet go!
    That doth invert th' attest of eyes and ears;
  OLD ATHENIAN. Three talents on the present; in future, all.
  Corn. Followed the old man forth.
    Cried fame and honour on him. What's the matter?

    FALSTAFF. Would it apply well to the vehemency of your
    Else shall you not have any hand at all
    What an ass it is! Then thou dwell'st with daws too?  
    Revenge yourselves alone on Cassius,
  SHYLOCK. So do I his.
    Should be infused with so foul a spirit!
    How doth the King?
    Then let the pebbles on the hungry beach
    And thus thy fall hath left a kind of blot
  CAESAR. Which is the Queen of Egypt?
                                          [Edmund is borne off.]
    Cut off by course of justice-
                       Re-enter FIRST MURDERER
    To see your wives dishonour'd to your noses-
    My wounds ache at you.
  Since that my life on thy revolt doth lie,
    Like vassalage at unawares encount'ring
    construction made of her. Now, Sir John, here is the heart  
    In that thou laid'st a trap to take my life,
  IACHIMO. Not a whit,
  Cor. Peace be with Burgundy!
  ANTONIO. Go sleep, and hear us.
  THIRD LORD. I feel't upon my bones.
    For him, I partly know his mind- to find thee
     What is the cause of thunder?
  VARRO. No, my lord, I saw nothing.
  MRS. PAGE. Are you not asham'd? I think you have kill'd the

    And with what zeal! For, now he has crack'd the league
    And yet brought forth less than a mother's hope,
    Even by those men that most have done us wrong.
    When it was less expected; he replied,
  Fal. Ye lie, hostess. Bardolph was shav'd and lost many a hair, and
    Had I not reason, think ye, to make haste
    Between that royal field of Shrewsbury

    That I to your assistance do make love,
  Gent. 'Tis so; they are afoot.
    Been loose, this day they had been lost. Such joy
              Juliet, Tybalt, and all the Guests
    I think, hath appointed them contrary places; for, believe
    If she refuse me; and from hence I go,
    Over your threshold; moneys is your suit.  
         And milk comes frozen home in pail,
    mann'd, hors'd, and wiv'd.
  LARTIUS. Their noise be our instruction. Ladders, ho!
  Kent. A man, sir.
  PAGE. It could not be judg'd, sir.
    though you understand it not yourselves, no matter; for we must
    You shall go see your pupils presently.  
SCENE 6.
  VIOLA. Cesario is your servant's name, fair Princess.

    the sons of women, Master Page.
    Grows, lives, and dies, in single blessedness.
  ANGELO. Yet may he live awhile, and, it may be,
               Begone, I say,
  ALL. Hector! The gods forbid!
  A CLOWN
    Because all those things you have done of late,
  FANG. A rescue! a rescue!
  Whose rarest havings made the blossoms dote;
  ALL. Long live Edward the Fourth!
  CORIOLANUS. Why force you this?

  BRUTUS. Come.
  Sometime all full with feasting on your sight,
    Now in his life, against your holy oath?

     Ere you had spoke so far. He led our powers,
    Have comfort, for I know your plight is pitied
  CRESSIDA. It is no matter, now I ha't again.
    Which after-hours gives leisure to repent.
  BARDOLPH. I beseech you, which is Justice Shallow?
    Until the elder sister first be wed.
    melancholy of mine own, compounded of many simples, extracted
    I am for other than for dancing measures.
    Although by confiscation they are ours,
    And with those hands that grasp'd the heaviest club
    Should from her vesture chance to steal a kiss
    You may as well do anything most hard
  Mon. Both by myself and many other friend;
    March'd through the city to the palace gates.
  Hot. Did you beg any, God forbid!
    That every nice offense should bear his comment.
    For the most worthiest fit! Give me your pardon.
    fair, virtuous, wise, chaste, constant, qualified, and less
    Evermore show'ring? In one little body
    the blood ere one can say 'What's this?' How do you now?
  FORD. If I do find it-well.
  And I, to blame, have held him here too long.
    As all impediments in fancy's course
    Than did the fault before it was so patch'd.
    What poor an instrument
    'Tis his aspect of terror. All's not well.
  YORK. Anjou and Maine are given to the French;
    love thee against my will.  
  FALSTAFF. Not a penny. I have been content, sir, you should
                      on the walls of Corioli
    you i' th' earth three-and-twenty years.
LUCIANA. Because their business still lies out o' door.
    Gentlewoman, good day! I pray you be my mean
  HELENA. Ay, surely, mere the truth; I know his lady.
    here, I can tell you.
    suits of peach-colour'd satin, which now peaches him a beggar.
    We met by chance; you did not find me here.
    But only, with your patience, that we may
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  GRUMIO. Out of their saddles into the dirt; and thereby hangs a
     Methinks thy voice is alter'd, and thou speak'st
  ADRIAN. Follow, I pray you.                             Exeunt
    Kind my lord.
    Hath left a witness'd usurpation.
    And as the thing that's heavy in itself
    BOTH. Our hearts receive your warnings.
  TITUS. 'Stuprum- Chiron- Demetrius.'
  PAGE. Hang 'em, slaves! I do not think the knight would offer it;
  GLOUCESTER. The Church! Where is it? Had not churchmen
                          and many commons  
    Which God defend that I should wring from him.
  Ham. And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
     Allow not nature more than nature needs,
  IAGO. This is the fruit of whoring. Prithee, Emilia,
  NORFOLK. Not almost appears-
    Let me not hold my tongue, let me not, Hubert;  
    Of youth and ignorance; both my revenge and hate
    By underhand corrupted foul injustice,
    Condemning shadows quite.
    I may dispose of him.
    If I were covetous, ambitious, or perverse,
    Is most divinely vow'd upon the right
    And all the gods go with you! Upon your sword
    You bead, you acorn.
  Where have you left the money that I gave you?
Enter BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
  LUCILIUS. They meant his night in Sard is to be quarter'd;
    knock you indifferently well. If you grow foul with me, Pistol, I
  SOLDIER. They say one Taurus.
    And crowns for convoy put into his purse;
    But yet hear this- mistake me not: no life,
    Was cried incomparable; and th' ensuing night
    At nothing can be more. I'll to my book;
  DUCHESS. [Within] A woman, and thine aunt, great King; 'tis I.
    Fly, to revenge my death when I am dead:
    Hastings and Rivers, take each other's hand;
  FLUELLEN. Captain Macmorris, I beseech you now, will you voutsafe
    who is fled and gone. Will you come presently?
    But if it be a sin to covet honour,
  IAGO. If you are so fond over her iniquity, give her patent to
    Upon our soldiers, we will retire to Calais.
  KING. Lady mine, proceed.

    Did from the flames of Troy upon his shoulder
    the goose carries not the fox. It is well. Leave it to his
    As I will watch the aim, or to find both,  
    And that my fainting words do warrant death.
    How do you, madam? How do you, my good lady?
  EMILIA. As well as one so great and so forlorn
    Come hither.                                   [They retire]
    To every varied object in his glance;
    As he was born. The King he takes the babe
Enter Brutus, Dardanius, Clitus, Strato, and Volumnius.
    Upon your oath of service to the Pope,
  PISTOL. Two yards, and more.  
    that, monster, but an infinite loss.
  MARIANA. My husband bids me; now I will unmask.
    Wear your eye thus, not jealous nor secure.
    tender your persons to his presence, whisper him in your behalfs;
    And, see, a book of prayer in his hand,
    To be Protector of his Excellence?
    Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love

ACT_3|SC_7
    The fortress of it; for better might we  
    Upon the which, that every one may read,  
  HELENA. That wishing well had not a body in't
    When with his Amazonian chin he drove
    'Lo, Jupiter is yonder, dealing life!'
  CRESSIDA. No, Paris is not; for you know 'tis true
    Would give preceptial medicine to rage,
    God grant that some, less noble and less loyal,
  Host. O Jesu, my lord the Prince!
    They are free men, but I am banished.
    My death's sad tale may yet undeaf his ear.
  Lear. To have a thousand with red burning spits
    scour'd.
  HELENA. O, I believe with him,
  LAFEU. To what is count's man: count's master is of another style.

    To you yourself, to us, to every one.  
    There is an air comes from her. What fine chisel  
  LEONTES. No, I'll not rear
  Corn. Fie, sir, fie!
     che vore ye, or Ise try whether your costard or my ballow be the
    serve, there shall be smiles- but that shall be as it may. I dare
  Osw. Let go, slave, or thou diest!
    advantage in the process but only the losing of hope by time.
    Unless to spy my shadow in the sun
  ISABELLA. One that I would were here, Friar Lodowick.
  CATESBY. Ay, on my life; and hopes to find you forward

    Deserv'd more than a prison.
    brow of a bachelor; and by how much defence is better than no
    But on the sight of us your lawful king,
    Which spongy April at thy hest betrims,
    To twinkle in their spheres till they return.
    Lies mocking our designs; with him Patroclus
    QUEEN ELINOR, widow of King Henry II and mother to
    that such a one and such a one were past cure of the thing you

  

Enter Macbeth.
  LENNOX. Good morrow, noble sir.
    Do make myself a suitor to your daughter,
  Mer. The pox of such antic, lisping, affecting fantasticoes- these
    Should pass this way, as you did. O, the Fates!
  Pedro. Good morrow to this fair assembly.
  SICINIUS. It is a mind
    And lack not to lose still. Thus, Indian-like,
    As thus: to drop them still upon one place
    By sudden flight. Come, dally not, be gone.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    thousand years old, and in all this time there was not any man
  OLIVIA. Prithee read i' thy right wits.
  CLOWN. God be with you, sir; I will.
  KING EDWARD. Madam, yourself is not exempt from this;
  DUKE. How shall I fashion me to wear a cloak?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    swine-keeping, from eating draff and husks. A mad fellow met me
    Sometimes you would call out for Cicely Hacket.
  OTHELLO. 'Tis he. O brave Iago, honest and just,
    And give it to this fellow. Keep it, fellow;
  NESTOR. And in the imitation of these twain-
    more than I know. That he is old (the more the pity) his white
    But fear not thou until thy foot be snar'd,
    Religious canons, civil laws, are cruel;
    You'll ask me why I rather choose to have
     Seeing how loathly opposite I stood
  WILLIAMS. 'Tis certain, every man that dies ill, the ill upon his
    Is of a sudden thus advanc'd in Rome?
    we shall stay here at the least a month, and he heartly prays  
  Knight. Since my young lady's going into France, sir, the fool
  GLOUCESTER. I hope they will not come upon us now.
    Turn me away and let the foul'st contempt

  ROSALIND. By my life, she will do as I do.

  FALSTAFF. Where's he?
    Of a strange fever. Upon his mere request-
                                               Exit [Gentleman].
    Told our intents before; which once disclos'd,
    master knew she was Margaret; and partly by his oaths, which
    Without impeachment; for, to say the sooth-
    Be nothing of our strife; if we contend,
    wars for my money. I hope to see Romans as cheap as Volscians.

    kinsman not past three quarters of a mile hence, unto whom I was
  KING RICHARD. Your reasons are too shallow and too quick.  
    way then to unfool me again? Set down the basket, villain!
  them suits of durance; he that sets up his rest to do more
  STANLEY did dream the boar did raze our helms,
     To laughter and contempt, that she may feel
  Disguised cheaters, prating mountebanks,
    Thy slander hath gone through and through her heart,
    cannot sum up sum of half my wealth.  

  MESSALA. Is not that he that lies upon the ground?

    Look on the tragic loading of this bed;
  JULIA. And I will follow, more to cross that love
    God save you, sir! Where have you been broiling?
                     Enter ACHILLES
  LENNOX. Here, my good lord. What is't that moves your Highness?
  Cap. When the sun sets the air doth drizzle dew,
    Achilles?

    Of thy first fight, I soon encountered
    The throned monarch better than his crown;

  GRATIANO. No; we shall ne'er win at that sport, and stake down-

    [Striking SEBASTIAN] There's for you.
    Which keeps me pale! Light thickens, and the crow
    Why, I have lost him too.  
  LE BEAU. There comes an old man and his three sons-
  COSTARD. Marry, Master Schoolmaster, he that is likest to a
    Which is for me less easy to commit
    And buried once, why not upon my head?
  EARL OF WESTMORELAND  
    a father begot villains. Wert thou not my brother, I would not
    That is the true beginning of our end.

    'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
Enter the DUKE OF YORK and the DUCHESS
    This tongue had not offended so today,
    tongue. O, that woman that cannot make her fault her husband's
    Lend me thy handkerchief.
    He is a noble Roman and well given.
    It blesseth him that gives and him that takes.
  WARWICK. Long live King Henry! Plantagenet, embrace him.
    See riot and dishonour stain the brow
    They cry 'Choose we! Laertes shall be king!'
  ANTIGONUS. Anything, my lord,  
  Thou hast passed by the ambush of young days,

    may be consul.
    In golden palaces, as it becomes.
    Mine eyes to sweat compassion. But, good sir,  

    That nice-preserved honesty of yours.
  And you in every blessed shape we know.
  ARCHBISHOP. Here comes a messenger. What news?
    Should be as mortal as an old man's life?
  KING. Farewell.  [To ATTENDANTS]  Come hither to me.
  SALERIO. Your mind is tossing on the ocean;
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Y'are well met once again.
    And look'd upon, I hope, with cheerful eyes.

    Who by the hand of France this day hath made
    Luxurious, avaricious, false, deceitful,
  BASSANIO. Let me choose;
    But in despair die under the black weight.
    The court awards it and the law doth give it.
      trudge about
  MRS. PAGE. If he be not amaz'd, he will be mock'd; if he be  
  MESSENGER. So it appears by that I have to say.
  And, knowing how the debt grows, I will pay it.
    Not sick, although I have to do with death,
  PORTIA. How now, Lorenzo!
    Call all your tribes together, praise the gods,
    And be you kings: command, and I'll obey.
  Or whether shall I say mine eye saith true,
    I will not taint my mouth with.
    To go about my preparation.                             Exit
    And still it might, and yet it may again,
    And fly like thought from them to me again.
    The handmaids of all women, or, more truly,
    Let's see once more this saying grav'd in gold:  
    And shape his service wholly to my hests,
  SPEED. Master, be one of them; it's an honourable kind of thievery.
    Was Cassius born. Give me thy hand, Messala.
         Pattern in himself to know,
    forty more- all great doers in our trade, and are now 'for the
                     Enter CRESSIDA

    For breathing and exploit.
    Than Hector's forehead when it spit forth blood
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  FALSTAFF. Mistress Ford, I cannot cog, I cannot prate,
   Whose high upreared and abutting fronts
  GLOUCESTER. I am come to survey the Tower this day;
  Mar. Lord Hamlet!
  CHARLES. Let's leave this town; for they are hare-brain'd
  My verse alone had all thy gentle grace,
  Blunt. I would you would accept of grace and love.
  SUFFOLK. And free us from his slavery.
    When I do name him, let it be thy part
    As blanks, benevolences, and I wot not what;
    Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves
        To ope their golden eyes.

    For were there hope to conquer them again
     the unruly waywardness that infirm and choleric years bring with
    And she, like harmless lightning, throws her eye
     His answer was, 'The worse.' Of Gloucester's treachery
  Who taught thee how to make me love thee more,
    Will not offend thee.
    That, whiles warm life plays in that infant's veins,
    to notify that her husband will be absence from his house
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    To bind him to remember my good will;
    Gentlemen, good den. A word with one of you.
    And see him safe i' th' Tower.
  GLOUCESTER. I would they were, that I might die at once;
    What companies are near. Pray you away;
    And who can sever love from charity?
    To me above this wretchedness? All your studies
  THERSITES. Then there would come some matter from him;
  Let those whom nature hath not made for store,
  THIRD CITIZEN. Before the days of change, still is it so;
  CLEOPATRA. This is the brief of money, plate, and jewels,

    This is the pearl that pleas'd your Empress' eye;
  TOUCHSTONE. 'So so' is good, very good, very excellent good; and
  GRIFFITH. She is going, wench. Pray, pray.
  BEROWNE. What, are there but three?
  Hor. Stay! Speak, speak! I charge thee speak!
    point, to the full arming of the verity.
    We are no tell-tales, madam, fear you not.
                                                 Knock [within].
    But I will fit it with some better time.
    all at commandment. Then was Jack Falstaff, now Sir John, boy,
  PATRICIANS. This man has marr'd his fortune.
    His princes and his peers to servitude,
    The noble Antony.
    So was I bid report here to the state
  RICHMOND. What men of name are slain on either side?
  Gads. What talkest thou to me of the hangman? If I hang, I'll make
  Friar. Hold thy desperate hand.
    The image of his Maker, hope to win by it?
    would you yet I were merrier? Unless you could teach me to forget
    Become them with one half so good a grace
     disposition made him seek his death; but a provoking merit, set
    Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player
    immortal, and death should have play for lack of work. Would, for
    Upon his party. He, mistrusting them,
    And go we, brothers, to the man that took him

    Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
    I am for you again. Pray you sit by us,
     and brain to breed it in? When came this to you? Who brought it?
    So sore as keeping safe Nerissa's ring.               Exeunt
  Lear. Let me wipe it first; it smells of mortality.
    And the poor beetle that we tread upon
    Trim sport for them which had the doing of it.
    gentry.
    How does my old acquaintance of this isle?
    ten and eleven; for at that time the jealous rascally
    I fear, I fear-

  SECOND APPARITION. Be bloody, bold, and resolute: laugh to scorn
    Because they died in honour's lofty bed.
    scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his
  BRUTUS. No, Cassius, for the eye sees not itself

    So and no other, as yourself commanded;

  IAGO. To have a foolish wife.
    moved.
    Were dolphin-like: they show'd his back above
    Who not contented that he lopp'd the branch
                     Enter other SERVANTS
  But reckoning time, whose millioned accidents
  CORIN. Not a whit, Touchstone. Those that are good manners at the
  LAFEU. He looks well on 't.
    Are nurs'd by baseness. Thou 'rt by no means valiant;
    To muddy death.
  SEBASTIAN. What if he had said 'widower Aeneas' too?
                Shall we their fond pageant see?
  Prince. I care not.
    Ever love Caesar so?
    you.
    was a villain.
    Thou dost affect my manners and dost use them.
    husband.
    daughter told us all.
    Cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuff  
  BOTTOM. No, make it two more; let it be written in eight and eight.
  CAMILLO. Why, how now, father!  
    And die ere men can say 'God save the Queen!'
    horses; the Duke himself will be to-morrow at court, and
             Heaven would in little show.  
     Cannot be seen or heard. Do but look up.
    in my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung those
    To hear with eyes belongs to love's fine wit.
  BUCKINGHAM. Say on, my loving lord.
              Why hast thou thus adjourn'd
    As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so.
    Before he go to bed. I'll take my leave.
    too much.
    Have in their own land beaten, bobb'd, and thump'd,
    Did graciously plead for his funerals.

    That young Octavius and Mark Antony
    So weary with disasters, tugg'd with fortune,
     No tearing, lady! I perceive you know it.
  LUCIUS. I hear none, madam.
    Which manifold record not matches? See,
    Then joyfully, my noble Lord of Bedford,
  Balth. Amen.

    Widow, go you along. Lords, use her honourably.
    Where I intend holy confession.
  Thus have you heard me sever'd from my bliss,
    Those that I never saw, and struck them dead.  
  QUICKLY. We shall all be shent. Run in here, good young
  FALSTAFF. Reason, you rogue, reason. Think'st thou I'll
  VARRO. So please you, we will stand and watch your pleasure.
    Thou shalt stand curs'd and excommunicate;
    To make a world-without-end bargain in.
    All these accus'd him strongly, which he fain
  SPEED. 'Item: She doth talk in her sleep.'
  OBERON. How canst thou thus, for shame, Titania,
    Though with their high wrongs I am struck to th' quick,
    Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state,
  MALVOLIO. Believe me, I am not; I tell thee true.
     To this great stage of fools. This' a good block.
  QUINCE. Why, what you will.
  Pedro. Draw it.
  Thou know'st we parted; but perhaps, my son,
with Falconers halloing
  IACHIMO. He sits 'mongst men like a descended god:
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. What mean you, sir? For God's sake hold your hands!
    consult about the giving up of some more towns in France.
    No more, I pray- and he's a steward.
                           Enter LUCULLUS
    Who marks the waxing tide grow wave by wave,
    That are of suppler joints, follow them swiftly,
    And to defend ourselves it be a sin
    one would kill the other. Thou! why, thou wilt quarrel with a man
    Where my son lies. When did you lose your daughter?
    Silence!
    Charm ache with air and agony with words.
  PRINCE. What company?
    when he show'd me your handkercher?
  LADY MACBETH. What beast wast then  
    Refuse me, hate me, torture me to death!
  FOURTH CITIZEN. Pluck down forms, windows, anything.
  adversity.
  FREDERICK. She is too subtle for thee; and her smoothness,
    The quality of persons, and the time;  
    Is the desire that's glorious. Blessed be those,
    That can torment him much and hold him long,
    Lastly,
  DEMETRIUS. See how with signs and tokens she can scrowl.
    Whensoever he's convented. First, for this woman-
  CASSIUS. Where is Antony?
    'As false as Cressid.'

    Most spend their mouths when what they seem to threaten
  FIRST HUNTSMAN. Why, Belman is as good as he, my lord;
    These eyes, like lamps whose wasting oil is spent,

<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  MACBETH. This is a sorry sight.           [Looks on his hands.
    Poor thing, condemn'd to loss!           Exit with the child
    Sufficeth, my reasons are both good and weighty.      Exeunt
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    double-dealer, which out of question thou wilt be if my cousin do
    And frowning brow to brow, ourselves will hear  
    And those of true condition, that your subjects
    Or, by the fires of heaven, I'll leave the foe
    this opportunity you let time wash off, and you are now sail'd
    With men like you, men of inconstancy.
  OXFORD. Call him my king by whose injurious doom
    Is not to stir without great argument,
    It cannot be; some villains of my court
  The age to come would say this poet lies,
    I am your wife in all obedience.
    Feast with the best, and welcome to my house.
                    son to HENRY THE SIXTH
    I throw thy name against the bruising stones,
  ANNE. I would I knew thy heart.
    for't. Wit shall not go unrewarded while I am king of
  BASSANIO. One speak for both. What would you?
  The one a palate hath that needs will taste,


    As you commanded me.
    There's much example for't; the fellow that sits next him now,
    And let my gravestone be your oracle.
    Whose fall the mark of his ambition is.                 Exit

  Ill-fac'd, worse bodied, shapeless everywhere;
  Glou. O you mighty gods!                            He kneels.
  ARVIRAGUS. It is not likely
     That with the pain of death would hourly die
  BUCKINGHAM. Which since you come too late of our intent,
      O Cromwell,
  PANDARUS. You shall see.
    am sure, I have received none, unless experience be a jewel;
    Through casements darted their desiring eyes
    To brave the Tribune in his brother's hearing.
    Besides, this place is famous for the creatures
  VALENTINE. Even she; and is she not a heavenly saint?
    And to myself become an enemy.
    me this prayer, though thou deny me a matter of more weight; good
    Britain be fortunate and flourish in peace and plenty.'
                                                   [Steps aside]
         Enter BASSANIO, with LEONARDO, with a FOLLOWER or two
    Let it command a mirror hither straight,
    in that you are the first-born; but the same tradition takes not
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Well, there went but a pair of shears between us.
    And let him never see joy that breaks that oath!
    Even like an o'ergrown lion in a cave,
  KING RICHARD. And be a happy mother by the deed.
    And I from heaven banish'd as from hence!
    as a squash is before 'tis a peascod, or a codling when 'tis
    We are but men; and what so many may do,
    God send you joy, Petruchio! 'Tis a match.
  Would yet again betray the fore-betrayed,
  NYM. These be good humours. Your honour wins bad humours.
    And saving those that eye thee!
    sew nether-stocks, and mend them and foot them too. A plague of
  PROSPERO. Mark his condition, and th' event, then tell me
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. Like an old tale still, which will have matter to
  LUCIO. Good even. Friar, where's the Provost?
    To quit the fine for one half of his goods;
    Therefore the winds, piping to us in vain,
    Our great competitor. From Alexandria
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  ENOBARBUS. I shall entreat him
    And satisfy the deputy with the visage
    Then be it so. Heavens keep old Bedford safe!
    Was not that nobly done? Ay, and wisely too,
    Bardolph. He would not take his band and yours; he liked not the
     If thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemn'd,

  STANLEY. No, my good lord; therefore mistrust me not.
    And yet, amen, if heaven do think him me.
    Yet so they mourn becoming of their woe,
  DUKE. By mine honesty,
  CONSTABLE. A valiant and most expert gentleman. Would it were day!
    We are yet but young in deed.                       Exeunt.
    Upon one battle all our liberties.
    More than, I fear, you are provided for.
  ORLANDO. O, sir, very well; here in your orchard.
    A madness, of which her life's in danger. Heavens,
    The marshal's truncheon nor the judge's robe,
    And not a thought but thinks on dignity.

    As stuff for these two to make paradoxes.
    To use between your strangeness and his pride,
    it shines bright and never changes, but keeps his course truly.
  And in themselves their pride lies buried,
  ERPINGHAM. I shall do't, my lord.                         Exit
  Hor. Is it a custom?
    Could not (with all their quantity of love)
    For thy solicitor shall rather die

    What's dearest to the world! Full many a lady
SCENE: Rome, the conspirators' camp near Sardis,  and the plains of Philippi.
  CLOWN. [Sings] My lady is unkind, perdy.
    Then give me leave; for losers will have leave
    This present enterprise set off his head,
    These fifteen years you have been in a dream;
  LAVINIA. Ay, for these slips have made him noted long.
    mother, thy mother!' then asks Bohemia forgiveness; then embraces
    Is now even in the centre of this isle,
    We have done our course; there's money for your pains.
  BOLINGBROKE. Go, some of you convey him to the Tower.
    Than amply to imbar their crooked tides
    then? Were not that a botchy core?
    Of every syllable that here was spoke.
    come.
    And so to you, Lord Hastings, and to all.
Enter two ROMAN SENATORS and TRIBUNES
    Let mine own judgment pattern out my death,
    spleen; the heaving of my lungs provokes me to ridiculous
  WARWICK. Sweet York, begin; and if thy claim be good,
    heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Read over Julia's heart, thy first best love,
    Come,sisters, cheer we up his sprites,
    O world, thy slippery turns! Friends now fast sworn,
  CRESSIDA. And is it true that I must go from Troy?
  SON. Ah, aunt, you wept not for our father's death!
    Therefore come you with us, and let him go.
    Commit me for committing honour- trust it,
    I pray you, rise; rise, Egypt.
  MACBETH. Can such things be,
  LION. You, ladies, you, whose gentle hearts do fear
    This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this:
    epistles are no gospels, so it skills not much when they are
    The practice of it lives in John the bastard,
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Would all were well! But that will
    Hardly conceive of me-let it be nois'd
  MACBETH. will have blood; they say blood will have blood.
    coranto.
    Men for their sons, wives for their husbands,
  As fast as objects to his beams assemble:
    Who, with a charm join'd to their suff'red labour,
  ALONSO. Why, how now?-Ho, awake!-Why are you drawn?
    fools, let them use their talents.
    One that speaks thus their voice?
    The King his father call'd Guiderius- Jove!
    To save at least the heir of Edward's right.
  Pedro. Nay, if Cupid have not spent all his quiver in Venice, thou
  VALENTINE. I know it well, sir; you always end ere you begin.
  MRS. FORD. Sir John, we have had ill luck; we could never  
    For the contempt of empire.
    Thou hast no weapon, and perforce must suffer.
  GOBBO. Of Launcelot, an't please your mastership.
  Nurse. An honour? Were not I thine only nurse,
  KING HENRY. It may be his enemy is a gentlemen of great sort, quite

    lad of mettle, a good boy (by the Lord, so they call me!), and
    And strip myself to death as to a bed
    hath made him that gracious denial which he is most glad to
    Doth he still rage?                                    Exit BIGOT
    Which, cunningly effected, will beget
  SECOND MURTHERER. We have lost
    If black, why, Nature, drawing of an antic,
    As if he pluck'd up kisses by the roots,
    That won you without blows! Despising
  King. Worcester, get thee gone; for I do see
    Respecting this our marriage with the dowager,
    And let them grapple. O, the blood more stirs
    I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
  ROSALIND. Ay, but when?
  GLOUCESTER. Now tell me, brother Clarence, what think you
    Of what commands I should be subject to,
    Make yourself mirth with your particular fancy,
    I saw upon her finger.
    To swim, to dive into the fire, to ride
  TIMON. How dost thou pity him whom thou dost trouble?
    Where's your commission, lords? Words cannot carry
    Upon the spot of this enforced cause-

  LUCETTA. Nay, now you are too flat
    to that end; though soft-conscienc'd men can be content to say it
  PETRUCHIO. O monstrous arrogance! Thou liest, thou thread, thou
    What traitor hears me, and says not Amen?
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. What, what? First praise me, and again say no?

    Do we but find the tyrant's power tonight,
    they will beat us, for they bear them on their shoulders; but it  
    The jury, passing on the prisoner's life,
    And, gentle Puck, take this transformed scalp
    glad to do my benevolence, to make atonements and

    We never valu'd this poor seat of England;
    Sweet Desdemona! O sweet mistress, speak!
    Would stand and make his eyes grow in my brow;  
    and I pray you all go with me.

    For hardy and undoubted champions;
    My dukedom since you have given me again,
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Well, lords, the Duke of Lancaster is dead.  

                  Enter Cassius and his Powers.  
    Thou teachest me. Minion, your dear lies dead,
    A whispering tale in a fair lady's ear,
    could not move you. He sings several tunes faster than you'll
    As one that takes his leave. Mine honest friends,
  DEMETRIUS. Not so, my lord; for his valour cannot carry his  
  LAFEU. Who's that? A Frenchman?
    Say that before Ascension-day at noon
  SHALLOW. It appears so, by his weapons. Keep them asunder;
    With thee awhile; determine on some course
    How now, my lord, is't not after midnight?
    noble Marcius.
     Whose welcome I perceiv'd had poison'd mine-
    But that I seek occasion how to rise,
    Insinuation, parley, and base truce,
  Edg. You do climb up it now. Look how we labour.
    Lie like one lump before him, to be fashion'd  
    From such a filthy vice; say to thyself
    sore purpose! Fortune, put them into my hand. This is the very
    That strength of speech is utterly denied me.
    It cannot be avoided but by this;  
    The Emperor's coming in behalf of France  

DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Hath he conversed with the enemy,
  REIGNIER. I think by some odd gimmers or device
    With full as many signs of deadly hate,
    Besides, he hates me for my father Warwick;
    Thou art too noble to conserve a life
    When I perceive your Grace, like pow'r divine,
PROVOST, OFFICERS, and CITIZENS
    The fatal colours of our striving houses:
                                                          Exeunt
    Which, as immediate from thy place and blood,
  TROILUS. Brother, you have a vice of mercy in you

    But here I am to speak what I do know.
  COUNTESS OF AUVERGNE
    But where thou art not known, why there they show
    We'll quickly hoise Duke Humphrey from his seat.
    Took pains to make thee speak, taught thee each hour
    Look to it well, and say you are well warn'd.


                          SCENE 4.
    To prick thy finger, though to wound his heart.
  If thou art she, tell me where is that son
    His marches are expedient to this town,
    If beauty have a soul, this is not she;

    thus declined: Singulariter, nominativo; hic, haec, hoc.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY

    My husband lives, that Tybalt would have slain;
    By penitence th' Eternal's wrath's appeas'd.
    Make dust our paper, and with rainy eyes
    Now my sworn friend, and then mine enemy;
    The King has gone beyond me. All my glories
    It cannot be; it is impossible;
  AARON. Here lacks but your mother for to say amen.
    Or, at the least, make them his enemies.
    I came to kill thee, cousin, and bear hence
    'Twas sin before, but now 'tis charity.
    Like a base pander, hold the chamber-door
    yare, yare! Take in the topsail. Tend to th' master's
    Appear thus to us?
    Of us that trade in love.
                          Enter SIMPLE
  JAQUES. Well then, if ever I thank any man, I'll thank you; but

COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  KING RICHARD. Discomfortable cousin! know'st thou not  
  SPEED. At thy service.                                  Exeunt
    courtier.
    Who should attend on him? He makes up the file
    But hast thou yet latch'd the Athenian's eyes
  DESDEMONA. My lord?
    With tearful eyes add water to the sea
    An heir, and near allied unto the Duke.
  SECOND OUTLAW. Whither travel you?
    Of head-piece extraordinary? Lower messes
    Which to maintain, I would allow him odds
    I' th' part that is at mercy? Five times, Marcius,
  CAIUS. By gar, me do look he shall clapper-de-claw me; for,
    In russet yeas, and honest kersey noes.
  ROMAN. There hath been in Rome strange insurrections: the people
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    This is the mouth o' th' cell; no noise, and enter.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Yes, but it held not;
    And pluck up drowned honour by the locks,
    And fair she is, if that mine eyes be true,
    And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    That 'twixt his mental and his active parts  
    Is so possess'd with guilt. Come from thy ward;
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. In good time, sir, what's that?
  PETER. Now is your time; speak loud, and kneel before him.
    To give the heir and daughter of Lord Scales  
    I hear him near.
    I'll love her dearly, ever, ever dearly.
    A man in all the world's new fashion planted,
    To answer matters of this consequence.      Flourish. Exeunt
    Be it so she will not here before your Grace
    To bid Aeneas tell the tale twice o'er
  PRINCE OF WALES. Let Aesop fable in a winter's night;
  Edg. Both stile and gate, horseway and footpath. Poor Tom hath been
    Maids as we are, to travel forth so far!
    Melted with tenderness and mild compassion,
    Then well one more may fair Bianca have;
    Arise Sir Richard and Plantagenet.
  
    I know you two are rival enemies;
    By you invited, do attend your presence.
    And to thee and thy company I bid
    That I may venture to depart alone.
    Whom ne'er the word of 'No' woman heard speak,

    Hath lately married. Shall our coffers, then,
    There's one thing wanting, which I doubt not but  
    Seek through your camp to find you.
    dames d'honneur d'user: je ne voudrais prononcer ces mots devant
  Beauty o'er-snowed and bareness every where:
       and WINCHESTER.
    Chaste and immaculate in very thought;
  The second burthen of a former child!
    Demetrius is a worthy gentleman.  

    Cassio came hither. I shifted him away,
    And that you come to reprehend my ignorance.
    Thrice-fam'd beyond, beyond all erudition;
    As we'll direct her how 'tis best to bear it.
    Of shame seen through thy country, speed thee straight
  KING. [Reads]
    To the greater bench? In a rebellion,
    My will enkindled by mine eyes and ears,
  YORK. Hold, Warwick, seek thee out some other chase,
    Let Lucius and Titinius guard our door.             Exeunt.
    Rivers,
    Oppose thy steadfast-gazing eyes to mine;
    I see no reason, if I wear this rose,
    And sometime lurk I in a gossip's bowl
    Clip dead men's graves, and from their misty jaws
    Not measuring what use we made of them.
    For I have only been silent so long,
    To make William Lord Hastings of our mind,
    For hunting was his daily exercise.
    To our attempts. Am I not stay'd for, Cinna?
  CAESAR. What would you more? Pompey, good night. Good brother,
    I would not yield to be your house's guest;
    know. If you will follow me, I will show you enough; and when you
  Knows not my feeble key of untun'd cares?
    Have found the ground of study's excellence
    As I conceive the journey, be at th' Mount


    And shape to win grace though he had no wit.
    O, that your young nobility could judge  

    He makes a July's day short as December,
     To pluck me by the beard.
  Gads. Sirrah, if they meet not with Saint Nicholas' clerks, I'll
  TRANIO. So had you need.                [They exchange habits]
  SHALLOW, a country justice
    dark'ned in your malice.
    I cannot mend it, I must needs confess,
    From one bad thing to worse- not frenzy, not
  KING HENRY. Who hath sent thee now?
     Who redeems nature from the general curse
    and that soundly.
    Upon a gath'red lily almost withered.
    Marcius would have all from you; Marcius,
  FIRST SENATOR. That's well spoke.
  Hot. The King hath many marching in his coats.
    flesh. What's that good for?
  John. My lord and brother, God save you.
    disgrace Hero before the whole assembly, and not marry her.
    with my lady about a bear-baiting here.
    Use us and it.  [To WOLSEY]  My good lord, have great care
  KING. And win them too; therefore let us devise
    The time now serves not to expostulate.
    Shall I be plain? I wish the bastards dead.
    before, how I cried, how the horses ran away, how her bridle was
  Ham. A dream itself is but a shadow.
  GRATIANO. 'Tis a strange truth.
  DUMAIN. The more shame for you, Judas!
    That I may pour my spirits in thine ear,
    the arras.
    Who can come in and say that I mean her,
  SCRIBE. Say 'Katharine Queen of England, come into the court.'
    If this division chance, ne'er stood between,
    anything that appears not foul in the truth of my spirit.
    High-stomach'd are they both and full of ire,

    Treason, my lord- Lavinia is surpris'd!
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    I'll be sworn, I have sat in the stock for puddings he hath
  FLUELLEN. Up to the breach, you dogs!
    Would scour these English hence? Hearst thou of them?
    He will allow no speech- which I do guess
    Which then will speak, that you must change this purpose,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Or by what means got'st thou to be releas'd?
    There are my keys. But wherefore should I go?
    Provokes itself, and like the current flies
    There to remain.
  Th' unviolated honour of your wife.
    This arm upholds the house of Lancaster.
  WINCHESTER. Well, Duke of Gloucester, I will yield to thee;  
    And give you entrance; but without this match,
    my lord.
    Look what is best, that best I wish in thee,
    But basely yielded upon compromise
    We met him thitherward; for thence we came,
     Makes thee the happier. Heavens, deal so still!  
  Pol. [aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter. Yet

SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  HERMIONE. More than mistress of
    From this earth's thraldom to the joys of heaven.
  AGAMEMNON. The better.
  ARIEL. To th' syllable.
    It is not Agamemnon's sleeping hour.

    So easily open?
                                    [They lead him out forcibly]
    And more thirsts after.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Turn your displeasure that way, for our faults  
  OLIVER. Call him in. [Exit DENNIS] 'Twill be a good way; and
     No less in space, validity, and pleasure
    Golden Apollo, a poor humble swain,
    And, madam, there is order ta'en for you:
  Claud. We have been up and down to seek thee; for we are high-proof
    Fleance is 'scaped.
    case. From a prince to a prentice? A low transformation! That
  KING RICHARD. Madam, I have a touch of your condition
    cross me thus.
    And therefore tell her I return great thanks  
  Bur. Most royal Majesty,

    By that time will our book, I think, be drawn.
    Toward this remedy, whereupon we are
    Beguiles him as the mournful crocodile
    Make not too rash a trial of him, for
  Gon. Pluck out his eyes.
    danc'd with her told her she is much wrong'd by you.
  WATCH.  [Within]  Qui est la?
    Incens'd the seas and shores, yea, all the creatures,
    For learning me your language!
    And oftentimes have purpos'd to forbid
    And not to seek a queen to make him rich.
    I'll give my jewels for a set of beads,
ADRIANA. Back, slave, or I will break thy pate across.

  JAQUES,   "      "       "  "     "      "
  MRS. FORD. If you find a man there, he shall die a flea's
  Then churls their thoughts (although their eyes were kind)
  Hot. What say'st thou, my lady?  
    To call me goddess, nymph, divine, and rare,
  DUKE. [To ISABELLA] If he be like your brother, for his sake
  OTHELLO.                            I think thou dost;  
    As any ear can hear. Come, let's not weep.
  KING HENRY. Give me any gage of thine, and I will wear it in my
           and ANTONIO in like manner, attended by ADRIAN
and Beatrice his Niece, and a Kinsman; [also Margaret and Ursula].

    will scour you with my rapier, as I may, in fair terms; if you
    Is he not like thee? Is he not thine own?

                       Exeunt King and Queen, [with Attendants].
    I should be as merry as the day is long;
  DUKE. The tongue of Isabel. She's come to know
    I'll prove a tyrant to him. As for you,
    Our archers shall be placed in the midst.
    Who, nothing hurt withal, hiss'd him in scorn.
  FIRST BANDIT. Where should he have this gold? It is some poor
    You must needs learn, lord, to amend this fault.
    beguiles me; but in the boldness of my cunning I will lay myself
  KING HENRY. The winds grow high; so do your stomachs, lords.
    Fair desires, in all fair measure, fairly guide them- especially
  PAULINA, wife to Antigonus
    And thou shalt reign in quiet while thou liv'st.
  WOLSEY. Say, Lord Chamberlain,
    Go, go, cheer up thy hungry starved men;
    I quickly were dissolved from my hive,  
  'Will', will fulfil the treasure of thy love,
    Give me mine angle- we'll to th' river. There,
  PANDARUS. Walk here i' th' orchard, I'll bring her straight.  
    Marcius coming home!
    A buzzing of a separation

    Your troops of horsemen with his bands of foot;
  MENENIUS. How! Was't we? We lov'd him, but, like beasts
    [To ABERGAVENNY]  The King

    The rites of marriage shall be solemniz'd.
    We do not come, as minding to content you,
    And with the same to act controlling laws.
    And, not reform'd, may prove pernicious.
  SHALLOW. By God's liggens, I thank thee. The knave will stick by
  PISTOL. With liver burning hot. Prevent, or go thou,
    The Duke of Somerset is in the Tower.
Juliet's chamber.
    This cell's my court; here have I few attendants,  
    out of my house yesterday in this basket. Why may not
    You take me in too dolorous a sense;
    mistress the moon, under whose countenance we steal.
    good.                              Exeunt SHEPHERD and CLOWN
  ADAM. Dear master, I can go no further. O, I die for food! Here lie
    Bless her when she is riggish.

  So all my best is dressing old words new,

  Ham. I have heard of your paintings too, well enough. God hath
    And, by the near guess of my memory,
  FALSTAFF. My honest lads, I will tell you what I am about.

                                             [Holding SEBASTIAN]
  SERVILIUS. See, by good hap, yonder's my lord; I have sweat to see
    Was sulpherous to smell; the holy eagle

  CASSIUS. O gods, ye gods! Must I endure all this?
    In Volscian breasts. That we have been familiar,
  GLOUCESTER. Villains, set down the corse; or, by Saint Paul,
  SIR TOBY. And I can cut the mutton to't.
  WOLSEY. Yes, surely.  
    For in thy shoulder do I build my seat,
    To praise him more than ever man did merit.
by William Shakespeare
                 Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.
  STEPHANO. No, monster, not I.
    Our fertile France, put up her lovely visage?
    Sit down, Kate, and welcome. Soud, soud, soud, soud!
    The hope of Rome; for so he bid me say;
    For when they hold 'em, you would swear directly
  Prince. What, fought you with them all?
    Thus have we swept suspicion from our seat
Scene III.
    For by his death we do perceive his guilt;
    Natural rebellion, done i' th' blaze of youth,
    Omitting the sweet benefit of time
  YORK. Damsel of France, I think I have you fast.
  SHALLOW. Go to; I have spoke at a word. God keep you.
                  Exeunt CLOWN, FABIAN, SIR TOBY, and SIR ANDREW
  ARVIRAGUS. Stark, as you see;
    Give you advancement. Be it your charge, my lord,  
            Enter two BRITISH CAPTAINS and soldiers
    Be patient; to-morrow 't shall be mended.
    Shall give a holiness, a purity,
  TALBOT. But ere we go, regard this dying prince,
    The wanton stings and motions of the sense,
    The King, that calls your beauteous daughter wife,
    you nearly.
           Thy father's father wore it;
    To swearing and stern looks, diffus'd attire,
  Carrier. As fat as butter.
  Guil. Heavens make our presence and our practices
    So her dead likeness, I do well believe,

    The grosser manner of these world's delights
    How 'tis abroad. Pompey is strong at sea,
    Did he not say my brother was fled?
    Many good morrows to your Majesty!
  CASSIUS. Portia, art thou gone?
                                          [Sets down the basket]
    Depart untouch'd.
                  FIRST SOLDIER as interpreter
  And in that glorious supposition think
  NORFOLK. Well met, my Lord Chamberlain.  
    It shall be said his judgement ruled our hands;
  CAPTAIN. My Lord of Salisbury, we have stay'd ten days

  PUCELLE. Will nothing turn your unrelenting hearts?
    The one I'll slay, the other slayeth me.
  HOST. There's his chamber, his house, his castle, his
  MALVOLIO. 'Go to, thou an made, if thou desir'st to be so';-
                   I'll begin it- Ding, dong, bell.
    And the ear-deaf'ning voice o' th' oracle,
    Your honour hath no shriving work in hand.
  Hot. I smell it. Upon my life, it will do well.
  HOST. Discard, bully Hercules; cashier; let them wag; trot,
    Mine ear hath tempted judgment to desire.
    A novice of this place, and the fair sister
    Now, Kate, I am a husband for your turn;
  Fort. Let four captains
  Ham. No, nor mine now. [To Polonius] My lord, you play'd once
    out another, and the shearers prove sheep, let me be unroll'd,
    to Casca's, some to Ligarius'. Away, go!             Exeunt.
    That fram'd him thus. Time, with his fairer hand,
    To wear an undeserved dignity.
    Scruple, and prick, on certain speeches utter'd
    This villanous saltpetre should be digg'd
     Your Graces are right welcome.
  Corn. I'll answer that.

  SECOND LORD. Nothing, but let him have thanks. Demand of him my
    If all the year were playing holidays,
    kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes;
  FIRST SERVANT. Hear you, Master Steward, where's our master?
    For now our observation is perform'd,
    In personal suit to make me his lieutenant,

    Let what is meet be said it must be meet,
    Nor conversant with ease and idleness,
    It carries a brave form. But 'tis a spirit.
  Beat. Dead, I think. Help, uncle!  
    Does buy and sell his honour as he pleases,
    dispositions the reins, and be angry at your pleasures- at the

A march. Enter EDWARD, RICHARD, and their power
    With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,
  Edm. Not a word.
  ACHILLES. How so?
    Brutus! Coriolanus! Citizens!  
    That both the world, I give to negligence,
    As if he were his officer. Desperation
    Of many worthy fellows that were out,
  KATHERINA. I'll see thee hang'd on Sunday first.
    to-night- are those stars or suns upon it?
  SIMPLE. Ay, forsooth, to desire her to-  
      Did nothing.
    I will oppose his fate. Our force by land
    dry death.                                            Exeunt
    In all this presence that hath mov'd me so.
    And I will use the olive, with my sword;
    And, to conclude, we have 'greed so well together
    When I, thy three-hours wife, have mangled it?
    How now? Where's your master?
    Or if thou hast not sat as I do now,

  VIOLA. Of your complexion.

  Cap. My sword, I say! Old Montague is come
  DUKE. Escalus!
    Since foes have scope to beat both thee and me.
[Cry within]

  IACHIMO. I am glad to be constrain'd to utter that  
    For fear lest day should look their shames upon;
    His tears proclaim'd his, parting with her; thence,
      Their own enactures with themselves destroy.

    For amplest credence.
  John. I wonder that thou (being, as thou say'st thou art, born
    Her enemies' ranks-I must withdraw and weep
  FIRST SOLDIER. No, sir, I warrant you.
    sent to you by my lady, to bid you come speak with her; nor your
    The Grecians' cause.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    In this day's council; but we'll take tomorrow.
ACT III. SCENE I.
    And see our pleasure herein executed.  
    They took his head, and on the gates of York
  GHOST.  [To RICHARD]  The first was I that help'd thee
    Horribly stuff'd with epithets of war,
    For she's a woman to be pitied much.
    Buzz in the people's ears, there nought hath pass'd
  AENEAS. Is this great Agamemnon's tent, I pray you?
    As precious eyesight, and did value me
    For many carriages he hath dispatch'd
    You look on me: what wreck discern you in me
    Sends me a paper to persuade me patience?
    The purpose why is here-in which disguise,
  Dog. Is our whole dissembly appear'd?
    Mean to establish Caesar as a king,
     In better phrase and matter than thou didst.
    I'll be his surety.
the PRINCESS KATHERINE, ALICE, and other LADIES; the DUKE OF BURGUNDY,
    His figure and his heat. I was much rapt in this;
    And I dare think he'll prove to Desdemona
    and there is also another device in my prain, which
    I spurn thee like a cur out of my way.
  CRESSIDA. O you immortal gods! I will not go.
  LAUNCE. I will try thee. Tell me this: Who begot thee?
    Bed, chamber, pander, to provide this gear!                Exeunt
    have no money in your purse.
    The chain were longer and the letter short?
    Startles mine eyes and makes me more amaz'd
          Enter the LORD CHAMBERLAIN
  GLOUCESTER. Away betimes, before his forces join,
    And then the King will court thee for his dear;

    Thy garments are not spotted with our blood,
    Come, come, sweet Emperor; come, Andronicus.
                                             Exeunt GARDINER and PAGE

    but boys.                                               Exit
    should she fancy, it should be one of my complexion. Besides, she
  Jul. I will not fail. 'Tis twenty years till then.
                 I'll apply
    You'll part away disgrac'd.
  Fal. What doth gravity out of his bed at midnight? Shall I give him
    King Richard might create a perfect guess
    Latin word for three farthings. Three farthings- remuneration.

    Nay, then I see that Edward needs must down.
   Did to his predecessors part withal.
  HELENA. O that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill!
  CAPTAIN. The Senate hath stirr'd up the confiners
    Compare dead happiness with living woe;
  ROSS. Your presence makes us rich, most noble lord.
    say 'There's some of the King's blood spilt.' 'How comes that?'
    That nature makes. You see, sweet maid, we marry
            Enter PRINCE JOHN OF LANCASTER, WESTMORELAND,
    Sing and disperse 'em, if thou canst. Leave working.
    And who sits here that is not Richard's subject?
    Lucius, awake!

    In your embowell'd bosoms-this foul swine
    Signior Baptista's liberality,
    Upon his face an ocean of salt tears
  MALCOLM. What will you do? Let's not consort with them.
                         Enter GLOUCESTER
    He hath a lady wiser, fairer, truer,
    Than Buckingham and his rash-levied strength.
    My silence and my cloudy melancholy,  
  BRUTUS. Even so.
    And now they meet where both their lives are done.
    A royal lady, spake one the least word that might
1592
  KING HENRY. Prepare we for our marriage; on which day,
    And where we are our learning likewise is;
    while thou liv'st, keep a good tongue in thy head.  
    Excited me to treason. Their dear loss,
    Upon agreement, of swift Severn's flood;
  DORCAS. Is it true too, think you?
    But wherefore grieve I at an hour's poor loss,  
         While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.
      and gracefully salute him
  KATHERINE. Dites-moi l'Anglais pour le bras.
  BRUTUS. Look, how he makes to Caesar. Mark him.
    strange bed-fellows. I will here shroud till the dregs
    What page's suit she hath in readiness.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. 'Tis the same-High Steward.
                  Thine in the dearest design of industry,
  Edg. This is above all strangeness.
    To call upon his own, and humbly prays you
    Thy eye Jove's lightning bears, thy voice his dreadful thunder,
  CLOWN. Dost lack any money? I have a little money for thee.
    Break too!
    Setting endeavour in continual motion;
    As matter whole you have not to make it with,
  boy Delay. Here are the angels that you sent for to deliver you.
  Ham. I dare not drink yet, madam; by-and-by.
    Page.

    'Twixt right and wrong; for pleasure and revenge
    But once a day, it would unclog my heart
    The Welshmen are dispers'd; and Salisbury
  Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
1608
    South from the mighty power of the King.
  The humble salve, which wounded bosoms fits!
  QUEEN MARGARET. No, mighty King of France. Now Margaret
    home I was in a better place; but travellers must be content.
    Look what I speak, or do, or think to do,
    But I return his sworn and mortal foe.
  IAGO. Did Michael Cassio, when you woo'd my lady,
    We shall chide downright if I longer stay.
  Kent. He hath no daughters, sir.

    As plays the sun upon the glassy streams,
    As Henry's late presaging prophecy
    His plate, his goods, his money, and his lands.
    If I in thought felt not her very sorrow.
  LEPIDUS. But small to greater matters must give way.
    And it missheathed in my daughter's bosom!
  EARL OF SUFFOLK
    cowards as ever turn'd back; and for the third, if he fight
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. How blow? how blow? Speak to be understood.
    How quickly nature falls into revolt
    ever thrust to the wall. Therefore I will push Montague's men
    She hath been colted by him.
    Divide me from your bosom.
    An Antony, that I might do you service
    When I have slain thee with my proper hand,
    Treason is not inherited, my lord;

            'So would I 'a' done, by yonder sun,
                                         Exeunt OLIVIA and MARIA
    Thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age;
    In any chastisement. I for a while will leave you;
  CASSIO. That's one of them.

    My tears gainsay; for every word I speak,
                     141
    Within an hour; and, pacing through the forest,
  Leon. Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my fortunes. His
  Beat. Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it.

    The barks of trees thou brows'd. On the Alps

    Meeting two such wealsmen as you are- I cannot call you
    And only that I stand for. I appeal
    Will he be satisfied.
    By thee to us; and he shall be interr'd
    For being preferr'd so well.
        For the which, with songs of woe,
    Am come to crave thy just and lawful aid;
    Much work for tears in many an English mother,
    knock me soundly'? And come you now with 'knocking at the gate'?
    Being unprevented, to your timeless grave.

    To have my pardon, trim it handsomely.
  PRINCE HUMPHREY. This apoplexy will certain be his end.
    As dogs upon their masters, worrying you.
  King. Pluck thein asunder.

  BEROWNE. Once more I'll mark how love can vary wit.

    occasion of my sudden and more strange return.
    Three times bestrid him, thrice I led him off,
    Humphrey of Gloucester, thou shalt well perceive
    Therefore thou must be hang'd at the state's charge.
    Bid him demand what pledge will please him best.
    Upon the dancing banners of the French,
    How far 'tis thither. If one of mean affairs

                                                         Exeunt.
    Have too much blood in him.
  LEWIS. Welcome, brave Warwick! What brings thee to France?
    It is a basilisk unto mine eye,
    is a motion generative; that's infallible.
    The warlike feats I have done, his spirits fly out
  FALSTAFF. Brook is his name?
                     Enter A MESSENGER
  RIVERS. These news, I must confess, are full of grief;

    And, with grey hairs and bruise of many days,
  MARIA. The house will be the quieter.
LUCE.  [Within] What needs all that, and a pair of stocks in the town?
  PAROLLES. As you'll have her.
    Be as a planetary plague, when Jove
    And great Troy shrinking.
  That did my ripe thoughts in my brain inhearse,
  MRS. PAGE. What's the matter, woman?
    once more?
  JOHN. He that flies so will ne'er return again.
    Bloody with spurring, fiery-red with haste.

    But not the words.
  LUCETTA. To take a paper up that I let fall.
                          Re-enter CATESBY
  Osr. Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.

    As waters to the sucking of a gulf.
    I must unto the road to disembark
  BERTRAM. Our interpreter does it well.
    And in part him.' Do you mark this, Reynaldo?
    I dare be bound he's true and shall perform
    The armourer of my heart. False, false; this, this.
    If power change purpose, what our seemers be.         Exeunt
    And curse that justice did it. Who deserves greatness  
    Wherein the acorn cradled. Follow.
     Suspend thy purpose, if thou didst intend
  
  KING. Ye are too bold.
    What fairies haunt this ground? A book? O rare one!
  PORTIA. Why doth the Jew pause? Take thy forfeiture.
                          and ATTENDANTS

    For Pyramus therein doth kill himself.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  Bene. That I neither feel how she should be loved, nor know how she
  EARL OF NORTHUMBERLAND
     From whom we do exist and cease to be;
    With spans and inches so diminutive
  QUICKLY. Not so, an't please your worship.
    O God! methinks it were a happy life
    Both suffer under this complaint we bring,
    The chief perfections of that lovely dame,
    Get me a ladder.  
  PETRUCHIO. I say it is the moon that shines so bright.
    And Eglamour is in her company.
    Being prepar'd for land.
  ESCALUS. Why, no.
  THESEUS. A very gentle beast, and of a good conscience.
  Were't aught to me I bore the canopy,
  KING. Yet still she is the Moon, and I the Man.
    To make oppression bitter, or ere this
    Blubb'ring and weeping, weeping and blubbering.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. How, sir?
    Your looks are pale and wild and do import
    I will not keep my word.
  ORLANDO. My fair Rosalind, I come within an hour of my promise.
    And have our bodies slaught'red by thy foes.
    choose me a husband. O me, the word 'choose'! I may neither
  BEROWNE. Let me say no, my liege, an if you please:
    Turn'd wild in nature, broke their stalls, flung out,
                          Enter a MESSENGER

  With virtuous wish would bear you living flowers,
    For choosing me when Clarence is in place.
    of it.
  SATURNINUS. Marcus, we will.
    Did in great Ilion thus translate him to me.
    O dear account! my life is my foe's debt.
    And Henry born at Windsor should lose all.
    Do you perceive the gastness of her eye?
    But nothing alt'red. What I was, I am:
    In aid whereof we of the spiritualty
    That she whom all men prais'd, and whom myself,
  BRUTUS. They are all welcome.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. I am sorry for't.
    A most unnatural and faithless service.
  JULIA. You mistake; the musician likes me not.
    Of what I have begun.
    Which never tender lady hath borne greater,  

    As I have to be hurt. O gull! O dolt!
    Metellus Cimber throws before thy seat
  GOWER. At Basingstoke, my lord.
     Will not bear question. Either say thou'lt do't,  
    Which, being dried with grief, will break to powder,
  FOURTH CITIZEN. They were traitors. Honorable men!
    Take me this work out.

    And yours of Helena to me bequeath,  
    And make thee curse the harvest of that corn.
  CLOWN. So you have; but I was a gentleman born before my father;
   You say right, sir; a Monday morning; twas so indeed.
    Do press among the popular throngs and puff
  DEMETRIUS. My lord, fair Helen told me of their stealth,
    Because your speech hath none that tells him so?  
    Hie you to church; I must another way,
  LUCIUS. Ay, good youth;
  SILVIA. When Proteus cannot love where he's belov'd!
  QUICKLY. Marry, sir, I come to your worship from Mistress  
    It draws toward supper in conclusion so.
  VOLUMNIA. I have lived
    This news of peace. Let them have pay, and part.
    And I am sick at heart.
    And now I give my sensual race the rein:  
    Run with these false, and most contrarious quest
    Good morrow to you. Here the street is narrow,
    Did Julius Caesar build that place, my lord?
  CRESSIDA. Why sigh you so profoundly? Where's my lord? Gone? Tell
    And who but Rumour, who but only I,

  GARDINER. Yes.  
the DUKE OF GLOUCESTER, Protector, the DUKE OF EXETER,
    A second night of such sweet shortness which  
  Sir M. But there is Mordake, Vernon, Lord Harry Percy,
    In end of autumn turned to the rams;
London. The palace
    To a dear friend of the good Duke of York's
    If he should stay at home today for fear.
  EDWARD. No, wrangling woman, we'll no longer stay;
  BOY. I do not know the French for fer, and ferret, and firk.
  OXFORD. [Kissing the KING'S band] And thus I seal my truth and bid
                                                   PAROLLES.'
    ten meals I have lost, and I'd defy them all. Wither, garden, and
  VALENTINE. Hast thou observ'd that? Even she, I mean.


  FRANCISCO. They vanish'd strangely.
    To number Ave-Maries on his beads;  
  ANTONIO. Come on; in this there can be no dismay;
  SHYLOCK. Why there, there, there, there! A diamond gone, cost me  
      For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
    March to assault thy country than to tread-
    Or all or lose his hire.
    And apprehended here immediately
    And if thy poor devoted servant may
    life, long and ever-happy, to the high and mighty
    Her tears will pierce into a marble heart;
    From the first corse till he that died to-day,
    hearing too? A pox o' your bottle! This can sack and
    Are turned to one thread, one little hair;
    but that, my offences being many, I would repent out the
    And dart not scornful glances from those eyes

    remember at Mile-end Green, when I lay at Clement's Inn- I was
  But beauty's waste hath in the world an end,
  QUEEN. Free lords, cold snow melts with the sun's hot beams:
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED


  CRESSIDA. O the gods! What's the matter?
    I know her women are about her; what
    To endure more miseries and greater far
  ROSALINE. Why, she that bears the bow.
  IAGO. 'Zounds! Hold your peace.
    I do estate unto Demetrius.
  Ham. O my prophetic soul!
    profit in the knowledge of myself, and by my friends I am abused;
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Those that will follow Cassius, go with him;
    Antonio, gratify this gentleman,
    And he shall be Vincentio of Pisa,
  SIR TOBY. Will you encounter the house? My niece is desirous you
  Ham. Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here that old men
     And not send back my messenger.
    As it is common for the younger sort

    brother, Orlando, hath a disposition to come in disguis'd against
    Thou art an exile, and thou must not stay.
    That may be wish'd for.
  CRESSIDA. Night hath been too brief.
  MARTIUS. Nor I no strength to climb without thy help.
    One of their kind, that relish all as sharply,
    The trust, the office I do hold of you,
    The venom of such looks, we fairly hope,
    to the Prince; this to the Earl of Westmoreland; and this to old
    And fairy-like, to pinch the unclean knight;
  DULL. Signior Arme- Arme- commends you. There's villainy abroad;
  VIOLA. I thank you. Here comes the Count.
    That have the office opposite to Saint Peter,
    I told my lord the Duke, by th' devil's illusions
    Therefore make haste. I must go write again
    Their most absurd intents.
    To make her heavenly comforts of despair
    oration; and let him deliver the pigeons to the Emperor from you.
    That marks thee out for hell. I say thou liest,
  DOLL. Can a weak empty vessel bear such a huge full hogs-head?
    DUMAIN. Now the number is even.
    Aiming at Silvia as a sweeter friend.
    Caper, at the suit of Master Threepile the mercer, for some four
    I'll hide me.                                          Exit.
    [Looks at the gold] O thou sweet king-killer, and dear divorce
    And put you in the catalogue of those
    Should be in them to give.
  TITANIA. Or say, sweet love, what thou desirest to eat.
    And razure of oblivion. Give me your hand.
    I would appeach him.
    Hath trifled former knowings.
  BASTARD. And hang a calf's-skin on his recreant limbs.
  LADY MACBETH. I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry.
                     HECTOR passes
    That thou, Iago, who hast had my purse
    totters.
Sicilia. Before the palace of LEONTES
  Again, if any Syracusian born
  Nurse. I am aweary, give me leave awhile.
  PHILARIO. Have patience, sir,
    As false as dicers' oaths. O, such a deed
    Star'd each on other, and look'd deadly pale.
    From brassy bosoms and rough hearts of flint,

    your will?


    Were fit for thee to use, as they to claim,
             Sleep his seat on thy eyelid.
             Or at every sentence end,
    And clap thyself my love; then didst thou utter
                                             Exit with the CHILD
    Which I have told thee, of my father's death.  
  EMILIA. But now, my lord.
  That over-goes my blunt invention quite,  
    Comparative for your virtues to be styl'd
                 Sleep sound;
  My soul doth tell my body that he may,
    Be an arch-villain. Believe it, royal Prince,
  Edm. Nothing, my lord.
                         [Shouts,within, and the trumpets sound]
    For which the people stir; if you will pass
    Cog their hearts from them, and come home belov'd
  DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM
  TROILUS. Pandarus!
    Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
  CLOWN. He seems to be the more noble in being fantastical.
    fourscore pound a year; whose father died at Hallowmas- was't not  
    If after every tempest come such calms,  
                            [Enter Knight]
    changes I perceived in the King and Camillo were very notes of
  GONZALO. All three of them are desperate; their great guilt,
    That good Duke Humphrey traitorously is murd'red
    Boldly 'Not guilty,' the imposition clear'd
    How he determines further.
    To wish him dead, but thou hadst none to kill him.

    Than was his will to get me, as I think.
  
  MARCIUS. Thy friend no less
                        Enter a LADY
    What need I be so forward with him that calls not on me? Well,


Scene VII.
    Lay hold upon him. If he do resist,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Wherefore? For my dinner;
  Without this folly, age, and cold decay,
    No space of earth shall sunder our two hates;
         Enter CROMWELL, standing amazed  
    And straight disclaim their tongues? What are your offices?
    To prick the sides of my intent, but only
    Poor miserable wretches, to your death;
    The scarecrow that affrights our children so.
    That I think honourable. Therefore mark my counsel,
    To make the base earth proud with kissing it.
    After the Danish sword, and thy free awe

    You are my father, for methinks in you
    It lies to cure me, and the cure is to
    Ah, never faith could hold, if not to beauty vowed!
  Gads. I pray thee lend me thine.
  Kent. Who's there?
    knaves. You are a pair of strange ones.

  DOCTOR. [Aside.] Were I from Dunsinane away and clear,
  PETRUCHIO. Marry, peace it bodes, and love, and quiet life,
  Ham. I prithee do not mock me, fellow student.

    To tell thee whence thou cam'st, of whom deriv'd,
  Two other like Gentlemen
    For fear of what might fall, so to prevent
    Thou art a slave whom Fortune's tender arm
  ARCHBISHOP. Say on, my Lord of Westmoreland, in peace,
  AUSTRIA. What the devil art thou?
    gentleman-like qualities. The spirit of my father grows strong in
    complexion.
    And made defeat of her virginity--

    Did hold his eyes lock'd in her crystal looks.
    That could not trace them!
    right!
    Answer mere nature- bid them flatter thee.
    And by my father's love and leave am arm'd
    Now can I break my fast, dine, sup, and sleep,
    To kill, I grant, is sin's extremest gust;  
    Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
  BOTTOM. -odours savours sweet;
    To tell your Grace, that, having heard by fame
    traverse, athwart the heart of his lover; as a puny tilter, that
  DIOMEDES. Diomed. Calchas, I think. Where's your daughter?
    And ere that we will suffer such a prince,
    Out of the path which shall directly lead
    your lordship. You are most hot and furious when you win.
    And so may I, blind Fortune leading me,
  FORD. I cannot find him; may be the knave bragg'd of that
    But hearts for the event.
    I meant to rectify my conscience, which
    A fever with the absence of her son;
    When living blood doth in these temples beat  
  BERTRAM. I know th' art valiant; and, to the of thy soldiership,

    When by the Archbishop of Canterbury

    curses he shall have, the tortures he shall feel, will break the
    To appoint some of your council presently

    Of all that I do know. Nor know I aught
  CLEOPATRA. Wherefore is this?
  HORTENSIO. Grumio, mum!                       [Coming forward]
  King. You have not sought it! How comes it then,
    Will this content you, Kate,?

    My art is not past power nor you past cure.
    And so in this, to bear me down with braves.
    the fashion, and so berattle the common stages (so they call
  HOST.  [Aside]  He is there. See what humour he is in; and
    My mouth no more were broken than these boys',
    How dares thy harsh rude tongue sound this unpleasing news?
  TRANIO. Master, you look'd so longly on the maid.

  AUMERLE. Then give me leave that I may turn the key,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  CRESSIDA. So I do.
    see! Well said, i' faith, neighbour Verges. Well, God's a good
  ESCALUS. If he took you a box o' th' ear, you might have your
    further, they made themselves air, into which they vanished.

     Than still contemn'd and flatter'd. To be worst,
    For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings,
                                                       [HECTOR falls]
  O love's best habit is in seeming trust,
    With several applications. Nature and sickness
    Say 'pardon,' King; let pity teach thee how.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Or wolf, or both-for he is equal rav'nous
  MRS. PAGE. My Nan shall be the Queen of all the Fairies,
    For if the Jew do cut but deep enough,  

  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Thou hast mistaken his letter. Come, lords,  
  POMPEY. I shall do well.
Rome. A public place
    And fear not, lords- and you, Lavinia.
    master, and my new mistress, and myself, fellow Curtis.
  AGUECHEEK. Excellent! Why, this is the best fooling, when all is
               Enter ANTONY With attendants
    And you of her, the bloody book of law

    To put on better ere he go to church.
    To cease this civil war, and, whilst I live,
    To point his slow unmoving finger at!
    Whose deaths are yet unreveng'd. I prithee
  IAGO. By Janus, I think no.
    To feel only looking on fairest of fair.
  CAMILLO. I dare not know, my lord.
    will hang upon my tongue like a new-married wife about her
    Tremble like aspen leaves upon a lute

           ACHILLES and PATROCLUS stand in their tent
     You should not ruffle thus. What will you do?
    Cry 'God for Harry, England, and Saint George!'
    The sun of Rome is set! Our day is gone;
  For what obscured light the heavens did grant
    And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
Enter KING RICHARD in arms, with NORFOLK, RATCLIFF,
  POINS. I would think thee a most princely hypocrite.
    I to myself am dearer than a friend;
    Of fantasy, of dreams, and ceremonies.
  BRUTUS. I will do so. But, look you, Cassius,

    case am I in then, that am neither a good epilogue, nor cannot
    Our viands had been poison'd, or at least
  TAILOR. This is true that I say; an I had thee in place where, thou
  PETRUCHIO. I see you do not mean to part with her;
  DEIPHOBUS. It is the Lord Aeneas.
    That almost freezes up the heat of life.
  CHORUS.      Philomel with melody
  COMINIUS. If I should tell thee o'er this thy day's work,
     For that I am some twelve or fourteen moonshines
    SERVILIUS
  Apoth. Put this in any liquid thing you will
    That, if you fail in our request, the blame
                      [Shout within 'A Lancaster! A Lancaster!']
    Embrace we then this opportunity,
    King, how attentivenes wounded his daughter; till, from one sign  
    either too much at once or none at all. I prithee take the cork
  APEMANTUS. Right, if doing nothing be death by th' law.


DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Master, shall I be porter at the gate?
    himself will not eat a woman. I know that a woman is a dish for

  PROTEUS. Why, then, we'll make exchange. Here, take you this.
  FLORIZEL. By his command
    And surely as I live, I am a maid.
    stairs?
  PROTEUS. But she receiv'd my dog?
  To set a form upon desired change,
  King. A Norman.
    To seek out sorrow that dwells every where.
    Up, Princes, and, with spirit of honour edged
           Flourish. Re-enter the EMPEROR, TAMORA
    If hell and treason hold their promises,
     When thou dost ask me blessing, I'll kneel down
    devil, and we shall know him by his horns. Let's away;
    Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
    To our solemnity. I trust we shall,
    Such men as he be never at heart's ease
    Take heed, ere summer comes, or cuckoo birds do sing.
  Or at the least, so long as brain and heart
    That leaves the print of blood where'er it walks.
     The strength o' th' enemy.
  Friar. Welcome then.
  PLANTAGENET. And I.
  HELENA. Nor would I wish you.
  COSTARD. Let me not be pent up, sir; I will fast, being loose.
    We speak no treason, man; we say the King
    impossible to me, if it appear not inconvenient to you, to set
    If your more ponderous and settled project
    day; a most lovely gentleman-like man; therefore you must needs
  DEMETRIUS. I'll broach the tadpole on my rapier's point.
    Our fair appointments may be well perus'd.
    May prove his travel, not her danger.
SC_1
  CASSIUS. Urge me no more, I shall forget myself;
    This female bastard hence; and that thou bear it
    And I confess, besides, I am no maid.
  BASTARD. I think this Talbot be a fiend of hell.
  TIMON. That's a lascivious apprehension.
    I tore them from their bonds, and cried aloud
    Becomes a fear, as being o'erpow'r'd. Therefore
  Pol. 'Tis most true;
    Forsook his scene and ent'red in a brake;  
    exhalations?
    Thou yard, three-quarters, half-yard, quarter, nail,
    She twits me with my falsehood to my friend;
    Here comes the Briton. Let him be so entertained amongst you as
  CLOWN. Comfort, good comfort! We must to the King and show our  
    What, what, ye sanguine, shallow-hearted boys!
    Was both herself and Love; O, then, give pity
  MERCHANT. If traffic do it, the gods do it.
  EARL OF WARWICK
    From heart of very heart, great Hector, welcome.
  HELENA. With Demetrius.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. They that bear
    Ascend her chamber, hence and comfort her.

    Thy Brutus bid me give it thee, and I
    Cancel all grudge, repeal thee home again,
  FABIAN. You must needs yield your reason, Sir Andrew.
  Ham. Give me your pardon, sir. I have done you wrong;
  BEROWNE,    lord attending on the King

  BASTARD. And doth beget new courage in our breasts.
  Bene. Beat--
    Than I have nam'd! The bastard Faulconbridge
  MRS. PAGE. Why went you not with Master Doctor, maid?
    Here, there, and everywhere, he leaves and takes;
  LADY MACBETH. Fie, for shame!
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Did he not send you twain?
  SECOND MESSENGER. Lords, view these letters full of bad
    Were red-hot steel, to sear me to the brains!  
                         Re-enter PROVOST
    Things that, to hear them told, have made me tremble-
    What's the matter? Look up; speak.
  VIOLA. I Pity YOU.
    Caesar has had great wrong.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Poor heart, adieu! I pity thy complaining.
    Next to thyself and my young rover, he's
  EMILIA. Do not you chide; I have a thing for you.
      at which, as it were by inspiration, she makes
    With the least cause these his new honours; which
    But like a foul misshapen stigmatic,
  SLENDER, cousin to Shallow
    Rather than render back, out with your knives
    favours so much that he swears thou art to marry his sister Nell.
    I mean to stride your steed, and at all times
    Yet not so deeply as to thee belongs,
    And does he send to me? Three? Humh!

    My lord should to the heavens be contrary,
  DIOMEDES. That's my mind too. Good morrow, Lord Aeneas.
  Which heavily he answers with a groan,
    Best sing it to the tune of 'Light o' Love.'
    occasion to anger Cassio, either by speaking too loud, or
    And forth my mimic comes. When they him spy,
    Effect in an Earthly Actor.'
  CASSANDRA. Cry, Troyans, cry. Lend me ten thousand eyes,
    What gold and jewels she is furnish'd with;  
    Should straight fall mad or else die suddenly.
             Pretty soul! she durst not lie

    That, all amaz'd, the priest let fall the book;
    With an augmented greeting.
    Look to my chattles and my moveables;
    And now, good sweet, say thy opinion,
  FIRST SENATOR. He cannot but with measure fit the honours
          Exeunt against the town all but BEDFORD and attendants
    Mist-like infold me from the search of eyes.          Knock.
  FLUTE. You must say 'paragon.' A paramour is- God bless us!- A
    which angl'd for mine eyes- caught the water, though not the
  YOUNG SIWARD, his son
              Enter Lear in a chair carried by Servants.
    Did give him that same royalty he wears;
  Bene. By my sword, Beatrice, thou lovest me.
    Upon advantage.
    Show thy descent by gazing 'gainst the sun;
    Coriolanus, in Corioli?
     'Tis wonder that thy life and wits at once
    It was the swift celerity of his death,


  DULL. Which is the Duke's own person?
    That sets him high in fame.  
  LUCIUS. Call'd you, my lord?
    sometimes by chance. Let me pocket up my pedlar's excrement.
  IAGO.                        Alas, alas!
    To overcome him. In that beastly fury
    And tidings do I bring, and lucky joys,
    leather.
  MESSENGER. The mighty Dukes, Gloucester and Buckingham.
    You know the lady; she is fast my wife,
  CASSIO. I have well approved it, sir. I drunk!
Enter CHORUS
  DUKE. I do fear, too dreadful.  
  There had she not been long but she became
     Catch in their fury and make nothing of;
  HOLOFERNES. And certes, the text most infallibly concludes it.
    Read to her sons than she hath read to thee
  Thy looks should nothing thence, but sweetness tell.

  John. Come, let us to the banquet.
  KING HENRY. Then what intends these forces thou dost bring?
    wilt have me.                                           Exit
    His head unmellowed, but his judgment ripe;
    The lazy time, if not with some delight?
    And shall continue our graces towards him.
    That fears a painted devil. If he do bleed,
  Bene. You hear, Count Claudio. I can be secret as a dumb man, I

    And sees fast by a butcher with an axe,
    Could not prevail with all their oratory,

    Attend his further pleasure.

    As merry as when our nuptial day was done,
    Come, lead me to the block; bear him my head.
  DOLL. They say Poins has a good wit.

    Ready to starve and dare not touch his own.
    A worthy fool! Motley's the only wear.
    speak with you.
    When Tarquin made a head for Rome, he fought
    powder. They'll fill a pit as well as better. Tush, man, mortal
    After our great good cheer. Pray you, sit down;
  BASTARD OF ORLEANS
  IMOGEN. I wish ye sport.
  DUKE. Sir, induced by my charity, and hearing how hastily you are
    And that I partly know the instrument
    Made a divorce betwixt his queen and him;

    Happy in this, she is not yet so old
    know of him, but yet go fetch him hither; go.
    think it fit to shore them again, and that the complaint they
  BIANCA. 'Tis very good; I must be circumstanced.            Exeunt.

  MARIA. No, I warrant you, he will not hear of godliness.  
    I am afeard the life of Helen, lady,
    be provided to show them entertainment.
    Here comes Bassanio, your most noble kinsman,
  Exceeded by the height of happier men.
    My weav'd-up follies? Gentle Northumberland,

  SIR TOBY. Past question; for thou seest it will not curl by nature.
  ALCIBIADES. I have heard in some sort of thy miseries.
    With purple falchion, painted to the hilt
    Touching the jointure that your king must make,
    Send danger from the east unto the west,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    I know not what I shall incur to pass it,
SCENE III.
    And help to set a head on headless Rome.
    And mar men's spurring. Crack the lawyer's voice,
    Yet, if thou say Antony lives, is well,  
    you?
    at thee with a down right blow!
    But that, till further trial in those charges  
                     Enter PANDARUS
    Shake in their fear and with pale policy
  ACHILLES. Nay, good Ajax.
  SECOND CITIZEN. Think you so? Which way do you judge my wit would
  SIR TOBY. To hear by the nose, it is dulcet in contagion. But shall
    How you do leave me to mine own protection.
  LEWIS. Warwick, this is some post to us or thee.
  SECOND OUTLAW. Being nimble-footed, he hath outrun us,
  CADE. Away with him, I say! Hang him with his pen and inkhorn about
    And once again proclaim us King of England.
  Laer. It is here, Hamlet. Hamlet, thou art slain;
    Cannot do more in England than the Nevils;
    her.
    Thou common whore of mankind, that puts odds
    On those that are, revenge: crimes, like lands,
  And that fresh blood which youngly thou bestow'st,
    Into a goodly bulk. Good time encounter her!
    sufficient to serve it?
  CONSTABLE. Disorder, that hath spoil'd us, friend us now!
    Out of my sight, and never see me more!
    By the fool multitude, that choose by show,
    Enter, with drum and colours, BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and the
    And be thy wife, if any be so mad,
    And kill the innocent gazer with thy sight;
    Not fearing the displeasure of your master,
    Would murther as it fell.
    This proves that thou canst not read.
    And foams at mouth, and he is arm'd and at it,
    Beguiling them of commendation.
  POINS. Put on two leathern jerkins and aprons, and wait upon him at
  Prince. Yes, Jack, upon instinct.
  CURTIS. Is she so hot a shrew as she's reported?
    Confound your hidden falsehood and award  
    suit of sables. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten
  Blunt. I come with gracious offers from the King,
     Come forth.
    Why, then we rack the value, then we find
    welcome to the wide fields too base to be mine.
    but even now. Whoa-ho-hoa!
    I look'd toward Birnam, and anon, methought,
Navarre
    Yet that, by you depos'd, you quake like rebels?
     Enter, below, multitudes, with halters about their necks
    And threw it towards thy land. The sea receiv'd it;

  THERSITES. Nor I, by Pluto; but that that likes not you
  KATHERINE. Den it sall also content me.
    Than you, unless you were a scholar, sir.

  ARMADO. Anointed, I implore so much expense of thy royal sweet
    Betwixt the constant red and mingled damask.
  LYSANDER. Ay me! for aught that I could ever read,
    And the Protector's wife, belov'd of him?
  CYMBELINE. Now for the counsel of my son and queen!
  HOSTESS. All vict'lers do so. What's a joint of mutton or two in a
    Stood Dido with a willow in her hand
  HOSTESS. Why, that's well said; a good heart's worth gold.
  CASSIO. Welcome, Iago; we must to the watch.  
    This is the latest parle we will admit;
     Pray you undo this button. Thank you, sir.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  Lear. Why, my boy?
    Will never do him good, not one of you.
  CANTERBURY. Then hear me, gracious sovereign, and you peers,
         And, being help'd, inhabits there.
    for a husband, and then have to't afresh. Sweet Bianca! Happy man
    When it lies starkly in the traveller's bones.
    I wish it grubb'd up now.
    A certainty, vouch'd from our cousin Austria,
          Enter LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HERMIA, and HELENA
    attributes?
    To dew the sovereign flower and drown the weeds.

    This let alone will all the rest confound.
  KING.  [Unmasking]  Ye have found him, Cardinal.
    Reign in this kingdom?
  CLEOPATRA. I am pale, Charmian.

     Leaving free things and happy shows behind;

             Enter AUFIDIUS with the second SERVINGMAN
    in the wane; but yet, in courtesy, in all reason, we must stay
  CHATILLON. The proud control of fierce and bloody war,
  FLORIZEL. Not any yet;
    Let me remember thee what thou hast promis'd,
  TROILUS. Hector is slain.
    Dishonoured thus, and challenged of wrongs?
    Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.-
  CELIA. O, that's a brave man! He writes brave verses, speaks brave
    In such another trick. Go bring the rabble,

    For thus deluding you.
  MONTANO. Methinks the wind hath spoke aloud at land;
    Sparing would show a worse sin than ill doctrine:

    But since thou lov'st, love still, and thrive therein,
  IACHIMO. That lady is not now living, or this gentleman's opinion,
  SHYLOCK. I am bid forth to supper, Jessica;
  FRENCHMAN. And then his banishment.
    Much danger do I undergo for thee.                         Exeunt
    Then by your side no bed-room me deny,
    Do not infest your mind with beating on
    As I do pray the gods.
    of sleep come upon me.
    counterfeit assurance. Take your assurance of her, cum privilegio
                  Enter Benedick.

  SEBASTIAN. He will be talking.
    Thou dost thyself and all our Troy deceive.                  Exit
  Dear heart forbear to glance thine eye aside,
  IAGO. 'Tis evermore the prologue to his sleep.
    I speak not as in absolute fear of you.
             Every fairy take his gait,
    rod he might have bestowed on you, who, as I take it, have stol'n
    Your lord sends now for money.
  CAESAR. Set him before me let me see his face.
  
    Wear both of them, for both of them are thine.
    And bade them speak to him; then prophet-like
                      Re-enter TITUS LARTIUS
    Which a dismiss'd offence would after gall,
  FRANCISCA. Are not these large enough?
      Thou being a goddess, I forswore not thee:
    For certain she is dead, and by strange manner.
    Our shows are more than will; for still we prove
  SALISBURY. Nor near nor farther off, my gracious lord,

  Nurse. Nay, he's a flower, in faith- a very flower.
  What observation mad'st thou in this case

    Great store of room, no doubt, left for the ladies,
  JEWELLER. If he will touch the estimate. But for that-
    Sir Nicholas Gawsey hath for succour sent,
    beseech you read it.


    'Tis pretty, sure, and very probable,
    Daughter to Charles the foresaid Duke of Lorraine;
  BELARIUS. A goodly day not to keep house with such
  To critic and to flatterer stopped are:
     In the most terrible and nimble stroke
    old signs. 'A brushes his hat o' mornings. What should that bode?
  ROSS. 'Gainst nature still!
    air comes in; there's none abroad so wholesome as that you vent.
  YORK. At your pleasure, my good lord.
    Would bring white hairs unto a quiet grave.
    what things are we!
    That no compunctious visitings of nature
     You have begot me, bred me, lov'd me; I
    Making such difference 'twixt wake and sleep
    And through him what's nearest to him, which is
    after, we'll a-birding together; I have a fine hawk for
    Teach me, thy tempted subject, to excuse it!
  PANDARUS. Himself! no, he's not himself. Would 'a were himself!
    Besides, the fashion of the time is chang'd-
    Yet fear not thou, but speak audaciously.'
    employment in the King's affairs.
           Samingo.
    This is no mortal business, nor no sound
                     Re-enter TROILUS
    Ye appear in every thing may bring my ruin!
    Hic steterat Priami regia celsa senis.'
    What an equivocal companion is this!
    He had been abroad, carousing to his mates  
    The newest state.

  LODOVICO.                            Is it his use?
    drunk, yet I am not altogether an ass.
  given them in wit.
    man, sir, and his wits are not so blunt as, God help, I would
  AARON. Some devil whisper curses in my ear,
    Believe me, love, it was the nightingale.
    Neither intitled in the other's heart.
The park
  MAYOR. Now, fair befall you! He deserv'd his death;
  DUKE. Notable pirate, thou salt-water thief!
    What a Herod of Jewry is this! O wicked, wicked world!
    An eminent monsieur that, it seems, much loves  

    And lay aside my high blood's royalty,
    jerkin, you are like to lose your hair, and prove a bald
    the king. Why did he come?- to see. Why did he see?-to overcome.
    But, leaving this, what is your Grace's pleasure?
    Expected. Since he went from Egypt 'tis
    And send forth us to make their sorrowed render,
         So be gone; you are sped.'
Rome. MARCIUS' house
    Feed him with apricocks and dewberries,

  KING RICHARD. Away towards Salisbury! While we reason
    When he hath power to crush? Why, had your bodies
                                             LION, and MOONSHINE
    stinking clothes that fretted in their own grease. Think of that
    We will persuade him, be it possible,
Enter QUEEN, BUSHY, and BAGOT
    the excellent constitution of thy leg, it was form'd under the
  CAESAR. Bravest at the last,
  GOWER,                  "      "  "    "     "
    And ask him what apparel he will wear;
    sevennight; and a time too brief too, to have all things answer
  EARL OF WARWICK
    medicines to make me love him, I'll be hang'd. It could not be
    I do not so secure me in the error,
    To thrust his icy fingers in my maw,
    Of trotting paritors. O my little heart!
    very pin of his heart cleft with the blind bow-boy's butt-shaft;
    But not with such familiar instances,
  BRUTUS. Ay, Casca, tell us what hath chanced today
    By heaven, I'll hate him everlastingly
    And you that be the King's friends, follow me.
    and die a shepherd.
    And will not wrong it.
    Till their own scorn return to them unnoted
    the readiness is all. Since no man knows aught of what he leaves,
    At courtship, pleasant jest, and courtesy,
    So far beneath your soft and tender breeding,
    Perchance some single vantages you took
    Her head's declin'd, and death will seize her but
    In tatt'red weeds, with overwhelming brows,
    The accuser and the accused freely speak.
    That Lucius' banishment was wrongfully,
    When I did first impart my love to you,
  All. Lights, lights, lights!
    Setting aside his high blood's royalty,
  MALCOLM. Now near enough; your leavy screens throw down,
  RICHARD PLANTAGENET, DUKE OF YORK
  

  That desp'rately he hurried through the street,
    Which he treads on at noon. But I do wonder
    Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
  GREMIO. O this learning, what a thing it is!
                           Enter BERTRAM

     She is herself a dowry.
    When remedies are past, the griefs are ended
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Thank me, sir! for what?
    on mine honour; and so, I pray, go with us.
                   Enter Capulet and Nurse.
    And will, no doubt, with reasons answer you.
  KING RICHARD. You speak as if that I had slain my cousins.
    But shall it be that you, that set the crown
    hearts fresh; they that went on crutches ere he was born desire
    A milk-sop, one that never in his life  
  KING EDWARD. See that he be convey'd unto the Tower.
    Than with an old one dying.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Read o'er this paper while the glass doth come.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Thy sister's sister.
Enter JACK CADE and the rest, and strikes his staff on London Stone
  KING. I am best pleas'd with that.       [They converse apart]
    have use for 'em; and would most resemble sweet instruments hung  
    Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine,
     Than my out-wall, open this purse and take
                   Enter the BASTARD OF ORLEANS

    The sea enraged is not half so deaf,
          PROCULEIUS, and others, his Council of War
  MALVOLIO. Were you not ev'n now with the Countess Olivia?

  AGUECHEEK. I' faith, or I either?
    How dear a lover of my lord your husband,
  SEBASTIAN. One-Tell.  
    be too big for your thief, your thief thinks it little enough; so
         Gilded tombs do worms infold.
         Enter TITUS LARTIUS, with his power, from the pursuit
    For the four winds blow in from every coast
    Great Troy is ours, and our sharp wars are ended.
    The English army is grown weak and faint;
  GRUMIO. Call them forth.
    In other arms than hers-to him this challenge.
    My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to
    Where is your son?
  Lear. No, no, no, no! Come, let's away to prison.
    And bid my cousin Ferdinand come hither:
    That you know well. Something it is I would-
                     102
  OTHELLO. Ay, with Cassio. Nay, had she been true,
    I'd play incessantly upon these jades,
    O Clifford, boist'rous Clifford, thou hast slain
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  QUEEN. Run, go, help, help! O Henry, ope thine eyes!
    By decimation and a tithed death-
    'Twas on a summer's evening, in his tent,
    To see great Hector in his weeds of peace;
    O, these are barren tasks, too hard to keep,
  Pedro. Good morrow, masters. Put your torches out.
    Golden opinions from all sorts of people,

    Unseparable, shall within this hour,
    This is his Majesty; say your mind to him.
    Now will I go to take some privy order
    I fear'd to show my father Julia's letter,
    mother's cat had but kitten'd, though yourself had never been
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Have sold their fortunes at their native homes,
  Take all my comfort of thy worth and truth.  
    Therefore, good youth, address thy gait unto her;  
    Brutus is noble, wise, valiant, and honest;
  SOLANIO. I would she were as lying a gossip in that as ever knapp'd
  DICK. If we mean to thrive and do good, break open the gaols and
  DEMETRIUS. [Awaking] O Helen, goddess, nymph, perfect, divine!
    Three times did Richard make a lane to me,
  CASSIO. Faith, I must; she'll rail i' the street else.
  GLOUCESTER. This doom, my lord, if I may judge:
    Which I had recommended to his use

  CLARENCE. Untutor'd lad, thou art too malapert.

    Goodly and gallant shall be false and perjur'd
    I will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee.
  SHYLOCK. I am not bound to please thee with my answers.
    The soldier's pole is fall'n! Young boys and girls
    Within the infant rind of this small flower
     At fortune's alms. You have obedience scanted,

    Have follow'd both my fortunes faithfully;
    Wipe off the dust that hides our sceptre's gilt,
  DUKE. Be it his pleasure.
    know some strain in me that I know not myself, he would
    But that his beard grew thin and hungerly
  PISTOL. Expound unto me, boy.
    Must glove this hand; and hence, thou sickly coif!
  To dwell with him in thoughts, or to remain
  O me! what eyes hath love put in my head,
    And thou, good goddess Nature, which hast made it

  ARMADO. [To HOLOFERNES] Monsieur, are you not lett'red?
    I mean our preservation, few in millions
    I cannot but be sad; so heavy sad
    Who when they were in health, I tell thee, herald,
    The sun is in the heaven, and the proud day,
  KING HENRY. A persecutor I am sure thou art.
    Where we offend her now, appear soul-vex'd,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  KING. [Reads] 'Great deputy, the welkin's vicegerent and sole
  BELARIUS. He it is that hath
    with him. Do your offices, do your offices, Master Fang and
  Fran. Anon, sir. Pray stay a little, my lord.
                [CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO are driven out]
    Bid'st thou me rage? Why, now thou hast thy wish;
<Exeunt
  HORTENSIUS. It is against my heart.
    Speaking my fancy: Signior Benedick,
    It is not for your health thus to commit
  SIR TOBY. O, for a stone-bow to hit him in the eye!
    You know me dutiful; therefore, dear sir,
    Therefore, your best appointment make with speed;
    To shine on my contemptible estate.
    with these tidings.                              Exit SIMPLE
     But even for want of that for which I am richer-
    Be thy intents wicked or charitable,

    The day is hot, the Capulets abroad.
    cut most of their festival purses; and had not the old man come
    We do exhibit to your Majesty.
    effect your ensuing marriage--surely suit ill spent and labour
                 With gazing fed; and fancy dies
  Bora. Yea, even I alone.
    A witch by fear, not force, like Hannibal,
  IAGO. Who is't that cried?
    The ringleader and head of all this rout,
    brought three hundred marks with him in gold. I heard him tell it
    In Hector's wrath.
    And, like bright metal on a sullen ground,
  ANTONIO.  [Aside]  Mark you this, Bassanio,
    lead!
  KING RICHARD. Uncle, even in the glasses of thine eyes
  SIR TOBY. Madam!
    Out with it boldly; truth loves open dealing.
  And having climbed the steep-up heavenly hill,
    In whose cold blood no spark of honour bides.  
     It thunders and lightens terribly; then the SPIRIT riseth]

  Laer. How now? What noise is that?
    thither. For debt, Pompey- or how?

  For where is she so fair whose uneared womb
    Chief nourisher in life's feast-
    The like from him.
    Hard-hearted Clifford, take me from the world;
    And all that shall succeed. Saba was never
    For on thy fortune I repose myself.
  Magnificoes of Venice, Officers of the Court of Justice,
    Will not a calf's-skin stop that mouth of thine?
  Reg. Our sister's man is certainly miscarried.
    In hollow bones of man; strike their sharp shins,
    Should answer solemn accidents. The matter?
    And hang their heads with sorrow. Good grows with her;
  Leon. I must leave you.
     Loyal and natural boy, I'll work the means
    Wears out his time, much like his master's ass,
  Fal. Bardolph, get thee before to Coventry; fill me a bottle of
    My lord desires you presently; my news
    What hath quench'd them hath given me fire. Hark! Peace!
ACT V. SCENE 1.
    I'll speak no more but 'Vengeance rot you all!'
    And Thisby, tarrying in mulberry shade,

                     40
  BOYET. My lady goes to kill horns; but, if thou marry,
  CASSIO. Alas, poor rogue! I think, i'faith, she loves me.
    Good my Lord Cardinal, I have half a dozen healths

    card.
    And so I do, and with his gifts present
    Thou rascal, that art worst in blood to run,
    make a man; any strange beast there makes a man; when
  CLEOMENES. Good madam-
    At this encounter do so much admire
    Where I espied the panther fast asleep.
  Till that, I'll view the manners of the town,
    Quit presently the chapel, or resolve you
    And, meeting him, will tell him that my lady
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    There is a play to-night before the King.
    Kill me with spites yet we must not be foes.

  PEDANT. Swear if thou dar'st.  
    The casting forth to crows thy baby daughter
  IAGO.                     Did not you hear a cry?
    Though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover
    That I should snarl, and bite, and play the dog.
    And calls them brothers, friends, and countrymen.
    That tidings came- with this she fell distract,
    o' that. You mar all with this starting.
    Hath faulty wand'red and irregular,
    And suck'd my verdure out on't. Thou attend'st not.
    As thou didst kill our tender brother Rutland;

  PHILARIO. You speak of him when he was less furnish'd than now he
    See what a scourge is laid upon your hate,

    T' inherit such a haven. But first of all,
    And change you favours too; so shall your loves

    And to preserve my sovereign from his foe,
    When thou dost hear I am as I have been,
    punto, thy stock, thy reverse, thy distance, thy montant.
  EVANS. So Got udge me, that is a virtuous mind.
    Take the ear strangely.
    that it was no better than picture-like to hang by th' wall, if
    And, whilst we breathe, take time to do him dead.
    Than stay, past doubt, for greater.
    And sent our sons and husbands captivate.
                    Enter CHARLES and LA PUCELLE
    Thy spirit walks abroad, and turns our swords
    To win thee, lady. But, alas the while!
    As that the sin hath brought you to this shame,  
    From helmet to the spur all blood he was.

    O'erpicturing that Venus where we see
    Follow'd my banishment, and this twenty years
  ARVIRAGUS. Or I, whate'er it be,  
    Once more to hew thy target from thy brawn,
    tell me one thing.
  QUEEN. Because the King, forsooth, will have it so.
  Kent. Pardon, dear madam.
    To wrong'd Othello's service! Let him command,
    going; I shall there have money or anything I want. Offer me no

   And let us, ciphers to this great accompt,
  Osw. I must needs after him, madam, with my letter.  
    As this Gonzalo; I myself could make
    again in affection. By mine honour, I will; and when I break that  

    Think that thy babes were sweeter than they were,
  PISANIO. Madam, so I did.

DUKE. But had he such a chain of thee, or no?
    As like Hermione as is her picture,
    Whom from the flow of gan I name not, but
    To the dead bodies of my queen and son.
  For all my vows are oaths but to misuse thee:
    his word after! Come, 'tis a foolish saying.
    me right, or I will protest your cowardice. You have kill'd a
    Hath ta'en your part- to have so much to do
    Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge!
    The Queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
    Excite the mortified man.
  Bene. Serve God, love me, and mend. There will I leave you too, for
    Your only choice.
    By playing it to me with so sour a face.
    Most disobedient and refractory.
    To unpath'd waters, undream'd shores, most certain  
    Only this commendation I can afford her, that were she other
Enter DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.
  JAQUES. And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut?

  KATHERINA. A join'd-stool.
  Leon. I thank thee for thy care and honest pains.
    For further satisfying, under her breast-
    employments wherein I should have cause to use thee with a
    His serious considering.
    And yet to charge thy sulphur with a bolt
    Soft infancy, that nothing canst but cry,
  Will be a tattered weed of small worth held:  
    that he is a gouty Briareus, many hands and no use, or purblind
  Ghost. Murther most foul, as in the best it is;
    In peace, and part this body and my soul
  BEDFORD. I do remember it, and here take my leave
    And not the very King. I have two boys  
    With whose sweet smell the air shall be perfum'd,
  Oph. So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.  
    Be gone to-morrow; and be sure of this,
  KING RICHARD. Do, then; but I'll not hear.
  Dog. A marvellous witty fellow, I assure you; but I will go about
    To th' noble heart. What's gone and what's past help
    To sports, to wildness, and much company.
  SEYTON. What's your gracious pleasure?
                           and others
    Presenteth them unto the gazing moon
    And joy that thou becom'st King Henry's friend.
  TAILOR. You bid me make it orderly and well,

                                          A cry within, "Help, help!"
  Citizens. Down with the Capulets! Down with the Montagues!

  POINS. Is it not strange that desire should so many years outlive
  MERCHANT. Ay, Apemantus.  
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    The intertissued robe of gold and pearl,
                             Alarum, retreat, excursions. Exeunt
    Have all lim'd bushes to betray thy wings,
  SECOND KEEPER. Ay, but thou talk'st as if thou wert a king.
    With this we charg'd again; but out alas!
    We'll learn our freeness of a son-in-law;
    Faith, sirrah, an you'll not knock I'll ring it;
  1. Mus. What will you give us?
    The Cardinal is the end of this.
    That smooth-fac'd gentleman, tickling commodity,
    keeps the bridge most valiantly, with excellent discipline. There
    And many of the consuls, raised and met,

    Wilt thou not, Jule?' and, by my holidam,
    hose and leaves off his wit!
    Of as great size. Ween you of better luck,
    Meantime, this deep disgrace in brotherhood
    me to seek.
  GARDINER.  [Aside to WOLSEY]  But to be commanded
    For since the birth of Cain, the first male child,
  QUEEN MARGARET. And leave out thee? Stay, dog, for thou
  WARWICK. 'Tis call'd Jerusalem, my noble lord.

    And but thou love me, let them find me here.
    White-liver'd runagate, what doth he there?
  BASSANIO.  [Opening the leaden casket]  What find I here?
  JESSICA. Call you? What is your will?
  KATHERINE. Excusez-moi, Alice; ecoutez: d'hand, de fingre, de
    For I do know Fluellen valiant,
    great haste, as it may appear unto you.
    Their ships are yare; yours heavy. No disgrace
    Becomes not Rome; nor has Coriolanus
SCENE IV.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  Edm. Some officers take them away. Good guard

    Even with the speediest expedition
    What treason were it to the ransack'd queen,
SCENE 2
    I bear a charmed life, which must not yield
    Thou hast a sigh to blow away this praise,
    If I do lose thee, I do lose a thing
  Ham. I would I had been there.
    Herself and hers are highly bound to thee.
    In breaking faith with Julia whom I lov'd;
  DUKE. Valiant Othello, we must straight employ you
  HELENA. I pray you, though you mock me, gentlemen,
    needle, an admirable musician. O, she will sing the savageness

    do it before the Duke.
Enter POSTHUMUS and PHILARIO
Britain. CYMBELINE'S palace
  CALIBAN. Do not torment me, prithee; I'll bring my wood

  GLOUCESTER. [Aside] But when the fox hath once got in his nose,
    rogue will tell us when we meet at supper: how thirty, at least,
    Gently entwist; the female ivy so
    his guard already; unless you laugh and minister occasion to him,  
    Queen. Sleep rock thy brain,  
    And take the present horror from the time,

    language in their very gesture; they look'd as they had heard of
    Mine issue of your blood upon your daughter.
    Every third thought shall be my grave.
  Mar. Good now, sit down, and tell me he that knows,
    With loyal blazon, evermore be blest!
    O masters! If I were disposed to stir
    Why, Phaethon- for thou art Merops' son-  
  EVANS. Fery goot. I will make a prief of it in my note-book;
    A merchant of great traffic through the world,
    Are numb'red in the travel of one mile?
    And when we are put off, fall to their throats.
  ROSALINE. This proves you wise and rich, for in my eye-
    Both in your form and nobleness of mind;
  STEPHANO. That shall be by and by; I remember the story.
                       Enter CLOWN
  KING HENRY. Yet they do wink and yield, as love is blind and
    Her favour turns the fashion of the days;
    He merits well to have her that doth seek her,
    Matter against me, and his eye revil'd
  GLOUCESTER. Suspicion always haunts the guilty mind:
    Prove this a prosp'rous day, the three-nook'd world
  WINCHESTER. Ay, lordly sir; for what are you, I pray,
  APEMANTUS. Where wouldst thou send it?
    If thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him,
      Most necessary 'tis that we forget

  TIMON. Good morrow to thee, gentle Apemantus!
    At your den, sirrah, with your lioness,
    in the way of marriage.
  And bid the Lady Abbess come to me,
  An Old Man
    presently a beast! O strange! Every inordinate cup is unblest,
  Claud. Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato?
    Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust
    Thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit;
  COMINIUS. I offer'd to awaken his regard
    Than thee with wantonness. Now doth thy honour stand,
    A phantasime, a Monarcho, and one that makes sport
    How you excuse my brother, Rosalind.
    As this that I have reach'd. For know, Iago,
    Pleasure and action make the hours seem short.
    chastity is in them.
    If they were known, as the suspect is great,
    He goes forth gallantly. That he and Caesar might
    And the very ports they blow,

    Thou foolish friar, and thou pernicious woman,
    Going to chapel; and the voice is now
  That may with foul intrusion enter in
    John Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Earl of Surrey,
    I have ey'd with best regard; and many a time
    The worthiest men have done't?
    That should have murdered Bassianus here.
  Prince. Thou didst well; for wisdom cries out in the streets, and
    That we have better men. But, hit or miss,
  FALSTAFF. I do believe the swearer. What with me?
  Edm. How malicious is my fortune that I must repent to be just!
  LEPIDUS. Nay, certainly, I have heard the Ptolemies' pyramises are
    The name of Agincourt. Yet sit and see,
  Have written strange defeatures in my face.
  CORIN. Assuredly the thing is to be sold.
  SHALLOW. Ay, that I do; and have done any time these three
    hate; I had as lief be a Brownist as a politician.
    As yet to question you about your fortunes.
    Could ever hear by tale or history,
    I fear you have done yourself some wrong; a word.
    The fellow has a deal of that too much  
    Leading the men of Herefordshire to fight
  HERMIA. Nay, good Lysander; for my sake, my dear,
     Sometime with lunatic bans, sometime with prayers,
    Bardolph, what news?
    In courage, courtship, and proportion;
    Thou kill'dst my husband Henry in the Tower,
  DUKE. No, trust me; she is peevish, sullen, froward,
SCENE VI.
LUCIANA. Self-harming jealousy! fie, beat it hence.

  WINCHESTER. He was a king bless'd of the King of kings;
    have been a great thief by sea.

    And thus far clear him. Now, what mov'd me to't,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    thought your honour had already been at Shrewsbury.
  LAUNCELOT. Well, well; but, for mine own part, as I have set up my
    infamy circum circa- a gig of a cuckold's horn.
  CAMILLO. Stays here longer.  
    Yea, the elect o' th' land, who are assembled
    Where, underneath the grove of sycamore

  LUCIUS. Here is a sick man that would speak with you.
  DEMETRIUS. Youngling, learn thou to make some meaner choice:
  A LORD
  IRAS. Go, you wild bedfellow, you cannot soothsay.
  Lear. No seconds? All myself?
ACT II. SCENE 3.
    To every several man, seventy-five drachmas.
    Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
    Two kinsmen digg'd their graves with weeping eyes.
    That this will prove a war; and you shall hear
    Using the names of men instead of men;
  SPEED. 'Item: She is too liberal.'
    Let them not live to taste this land's increase
    Play the maid's part: still answer nay, and take it.

    Nay, he is your brother by the surer side,  
    For what's more miserable than discontent?
    cannot be spoken of. There might you have beheld one joy crown
  CLOWN. Thou wilt amend thy life?

  CLOTEN. Still I swear I love you.  
  1. Car. Like a tench I By the mass, there is ne'er a king christen  
    And struck me in my very seat of judgment;
    Attended by my men. I will make bold
    for yours.
    Thanks to you all, and leave us. Fare you well.
    To lay one in, another out to have.
  DAUPHIN. Ciel! cousin Orleans.
  With safest distance I mine honour shielded.
    Play fast and loose with faith? so jest with heaven,  
  ARMADO. In thy condign praise.
    all as dead as a door-nail, I pray God I may never eat grass
  Lear. It shall be done; I will arraign them straight.
     That very manners urges.
  2. Watch. [aside] Peace! stir not!
  At my abuses, reckon up their own,
    Both merits pois'd, each weighs nor less nor more;
    Scoffing his state and grinning at his pomp;
    I had forestall'd this dear and deep rebuke  
    And let me find a charter in your voice
    To chide him from our eaves, for he persists
  VALENTINE. Sweet Proteus, no; now let us take our leave.  
    And if thou tell'st the heavy story right,
    From chance to chance; but nor the time nor place  
    That I have had of thee!
  CLOWN. You must not think I am so simple but I know the devil
  ALCIBIADES. So they were bleeding new, my lord, there's no meat
  ANTONY. Well, well- away.
    And you, my lords, remember where we are:

  BARNARDINE. How now, Abhorson, what's the news with you?
    I will implore. If not, i' th' name of God,
    my shins against it.
     rageth in him that with the mischief of your person it would
  CLIFFORD. I would your Highness would depart the field:
    In rank Achilles must or now be cropp'd
    Not my deserts, but what I will deserve.
                                       Exeunt PORTIA and NERISSA
    The origin and commencement of his grief
    These sovereign thrones, are all supplied and fill'd,
    As honour, without breach of honour, may
  King. Do you think 'tis this?
    Saying the sanguine colour of the leaves
    Such Ethiope words, blacker in their effect

    Let it appear so, make your vaunting true,  
    wouldst thou do with the world, Apemantus, if it lay in thy
            That from me was Posthumus ripp'd,  
    vilely in the afternoon when he is drunk. When he is best, he is
  DIOMEDES. Give me some token for the surety of it.

    Making them proud of his humility
     This rest might yet have balm'd thy broken senses,
  HOSTESS. Nay, sure, he's not in hell: he's in Arthur's bosom, if
    Why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body?
  SECOND LORD. Hush, hush! Hoodman comes. Portotartarossa.
    If we recover that, we are sure enough.               Exeunt
    More valour in me than my habits show.
                           Exeunt CARDINAL, SOMERSET, and others
    So far be distant; and good night, sweet friend.

     Here, friend, is another purse; in it a jewel
  CHAMBERLAIN. O, 'tis true;
  DAUPHIN. What a long night is this! I will not change my horse with
    Calls her a nonpareil. I never saw a woman
  Con. Can you make no use of your discontent?
    To make thee consul.  
    This proffer'd benefit of dignity;
    Well, there is sixpence to preserve thee.
ACT I. SCENE I.
Elsinore. A hall in the Castle.
ACT IV. SCENE I.
    See, doth he breathe?
    A saint-like sorrow. No fault could you make
    His body to that pleasant country's earth,
    Dare he presume to scorn us in this manner?
    That he is not only plagued for her sin,
    How much she loves me- O, the kindest Kate!
    To marry Princess Margaret for your Grace;
  Lear. Nature 's above art in that respect. There's your press
  Bene. I have almost matter enough in me for such an embassage; and
  KING HENRY. Go call our uncle to our presence straight;
    How do you, man? The music likes you not.
  FIRST SOLDIER. See, they have shut him in.
    That aged ears play truant at his tales,  
            Foot it featly here and there,
    These are their tutors. Bid them use them well.
    But kill him rather. I'll after that same villain,
    Sow all th' Athenian bosoms, and their crop
    What he deserves of you and me I know;
    Enacted wonders with his sword and lance:
  Thereof the raging fire of fever bred;
  BOYET. A light for Monsieur Judas! It grows dark, he may stumble.
    Will you give thanks, sweet Kate, or else shall I?  

                     60
    Have other some. Why, 'tis a happy thing
    To see my best friend ta'en before my face!
    By spying and avoiding fortune's malice,
    have mapp'd it truly. How fit his garments serve me! Why should
    These lords, my noble fellows, if they please,
    Having no warrant.
    To see him any more- cast your good counsels
  GLOUCESTER. Sirrah, or you must fight or else be hang'd.
    To sound the bottom of the after-times.
                                                [Takes his keys]
    These news would cause him once more yield the ghost.
    A dire induction am I witness to,
     Nature in you stands on the very verge
    Thyself hast lov'd; and I have heard thee say
    So mainly as my merit. I cannot sing,
  Second to none that lives here in the city;
    Hath that poor monarch taught thee to insult?
    As we are mock'd with art.
    As much as one sound cudgel of four foot-
    Drop in my neck; as it determines, so

                       Enter HERMIA
    Wherein of antres vast and deserts idle,
    would neither serve for the writing nor the tune.
    Cassio. Ay, smile upon her, do; I will gyve thee in thine own
  KING RICHARD. Say I will love her everlastingly.
  LUCETTA. Nothing.  
    And we may soon our satisfaction have


  Edg. What means that bloody knife?
    Then none but I shall turn his jest to sorrow.
    Ah, uncle Humphrey, in thy face I see
    That hour destroy us?
    with him. Come you hither, sirrah. A word in your ear. Sir, I say
    Of my poor babe, according to thine oath,
  SIR ANDREW AGUECHEEK
    Leonatus' friends.

  TOUCHSTONE. O, sir, we quarrel in print by the book, as you have
    For this advertisement is five days old.  
    man's disposition is able to bear.
    Look you what I have from the loving King.

    Falstaff's a knave, a cuckoldly knave; here are his horns,
Flourish. Enter POMPEY and MENAS at one door, with drum and trumpet;
    More tedious than the dial eight score times?
    Hearing applause and universal shout,
  GARTER KING-AT-ARMS
  PAROLLES. I most unfeignedly beseech your lordship to make some
    Gets him to rest, cramm'd with distressful bread;

  TROILUS. No.
    To grow there, and to bear- 'Let me not live'-
    Than some that have accus'd them wear their hats.
    comes not?
  APEMANTUS. Where liest a nights, Timon?
    I should have been more strange, I must confess,
    Be thus when thou art dead, and I will kill thee,
    And in dimension and the shape of nature

    Was once superfluous: you were crown'd before,
  SEBASTIAN. But one fiend at a time,  
    God's Mother deigned to appear to me,
Enter FLORIZEL and PERDITA
    Whereof I shall not have intelligence.
  Marg. Give us the swords; we have bucklers of our own.
    Weak'ned with grief, being now enrag'd with grief,

SCENE VI.
    This whole earth may be bor'd, and that the moon
  CLOWN. And I would give his wife my bauble, sir, to do her service.
  GRUMIO. Why, she comes to borrow nothing of them.
  Kent. Alas, sir, are you here? Things that love night
  TITUS. No, boy, not so; I'll teach thee another course.
    Hath pawn'd an open hand in sign of love;
    As if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds,
  She that doth fast till you come home to dinner,
  MAYOR. Ay, say you so? The gates shall then be open'd.
    Her young ones in her nest, against the owl.
  POSTHUMUS. Ay, and it doth confirm
    For her sake that I have been-for I feel
  Archibald, Earl of Douglas.
    Bliss in our brows' bent, none our parts so poor
    Lord?
  Bora. Being entertain'd for a perfumer, as I was smoking a musty
    No yellow in't, lest she suspect, as he does,
  CLEOPATRA. Th'art an honest man.

  SECOND OUTLAW. Peace! we'll hear him.
    Let us consult upon to-morrow's business.
    Saint Albans' battle, won by famous York,
    Will even weigh; and both as light as tales.
  BERTRAM. I could endure anything before but a cat, and now he's a
  I see a man here needs not live by shifts,
    And set another up- should we survey
    An honest man he is, and hates the slime
    Faith, yes:

    Came short of composition; but in chief
    The wine peep through their scars. Come on, my queen,
    Yet should both ear and heart obey my tongue.
    Prompted you in the ebb of your estate
  WARWICK. Come, Clarence, come. Thou wilt if Warwick call.
  OBERON.     Then, my Queen, in silence sad,
    Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
    And he to yours, and all of you to God's!               Exit
    And for that cause I train'd thee to my house.

    To feed my humour, wish thyself no harm.
  BAPTISTA. You mistake, sir; you mistake, sir. Pray, what do you  
    But great men tremble when the lion roars,
    As how I came into that desert place-  
    Art thou to break into this woman's mood,
  KING JOHN. This fever that hath troubled me so long
    May show her duty and make known her love?'
    Pass the remainder of our hateful days?
    of speech. Wilt thou do this?
    Speed how it will. I shall ere long have knowledge
    guardant cannot office me from my son Coriolanus. Guess but by my
    Than feed it with such over-roasted flesh.
    lie in my throat. By heaven, I do love; and it hath taught me to
  HELENA. The wars hath so kept you under that you must needs be born
    If you keep covenant. Had I not brought
    Whose he is we are, and that is Caesar's.
    In such a business.
                         Exeunt SIR TOBY, SIR ANDREW, and FABIAN
    Be these sad signs confirmers of thy words?
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  That in the ocean seeks another drop,
  Glou. O ruin'd piece of nature! This great world

                       [CORIOLANUS rises, and offers to go away]  
    doing.
    With one soft kiss a thousand furlongs ere  

  Oph. Nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.
  
    You put me off with limber vows; but I,
    disfigure her with it that she shall have no more eyes to see
    We lop away, that bearing boughs may live;
    With Ariadne and Antiopa?
  SIR WILLIAM GLANSDALE
  I am not partial to infringe our laws.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    With our own charge, making a treaty where
    I would have left it on the board, so soon
  HORTENSIO. She will not.
  ARMADO. Sirrah Costard. I will enfranchise thee.
  Nurse. By my troth, it is well said. 'For himself to mar,' quoth
    For I am falser than vows made in wine;
    Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
    It may be heard at court that such as we
  OTHELLO.                     Peace, you were best.
    For such receipt of learning is Blackfriars;
The Merry Wives of Windsor

  ANNE. How you do talk!

  PROSPERO.  [Aside]  Poor worm, thou art infected!
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  PANDULPH. I will denounce a curse upon his head.  
     Who is it that can tell me who I am?
    Cam'st thou by this ill tidings? Speak, thou wretch.
    We twain will go into his Highness' tent.

    Being all this time abandon'd from your bed.  
    Wake Duncan with thy knocking! I would thou couldst!
    And wish thee to a shrewd ill-favour'd wife?
    measure; or the bells of Saint Bennet, sir, may put you in mind-  
  CHIRON. A charitable wish and full of love.
    'Tis thou and those that have dishonoured me.
    Now, Salisbury, for thee, and for the right

  MARIA. At the twelvemonth's end
    Flattering myself as if it were the Moor
    In bolted language; meal and bran together
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  AGUECHEEK. An I thought that, I'd forswear it. I'll ride home  
    Yet, to avoid deceit, I mean to learn;
    Miss that which one unworthier may attain,
    Nor construe any further my neglect


    What you have spoke, it may be so perchance.

    We will bind and hoodwink him so that he shall suppose no other
  PAULINA. This news is mortal to the Queen. Look down
    But wherefore weeps Warwick, my valiant son?  

    Instruct my daughter how she shall persever,
    With many children by you. If, in the course
    O day! O day! O day! O hateful day!
    As painfully to pore upon a book
    And to cut off all strife: here sit we down;
    Of mercy, if thou didst this deed of death,
  FIRST SOLDIER. If you could find out a country where but women were
  IAGO.                              No, forbear;
    serve me, could not be man to me; for indeed three such antics do
  CONSTANCE. O, if thou grant my need,
  CAESAR. What man is that?
  HORTENSIO. Madam, before you touch the instrument
    and three or four loving lords have put themselves into voluntary
    was as virtuously given as a gentleman need to be, virtuous
    Environ'd with a wilderness of sea,
    May hold up head without Northumberland?
  VARRO'S SERVANT. 'Twas due on forfeiture, my lord, six weeks and
    said so, then I said so.' And they shook hands, and swore
    That I am Viola; which to confirm,
Enter ORLANDO and OLIVER
    And be true King indeed; thou but the shadow.
  LEONTES. I will seem friendly, as thou hast advis'd me.   Exit
    Hath but a losing office, and his tongue
        Because myself do want my servants' fortune.
  DUKE. Just the contrary: the better for thy friends.
    Express impatience, lest you stir up mine.
    Our purpose to them; and to our noble consul
    the very first house, of the first and second cause. Ah, the
    saved, and there be souls must not be saved.
  BRUTUS. [Aside.] That every like is not the same, O Caesar,
    With much more ease; for my good will is to it,
    fortune guide thee!
         While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.
          RICHMOND, SIR WILLIAM BRANDON, OXFORD, DORSET,
    Have laid most heavy hand.
MEASURE FOR MEASURE
    How hardly I was drawn into this war,
    Or, if you'd ask, remember this before:
    Then where you please and shall be thought most fit

    And this the banquet she shall surfeit on;
          Here PROSPERO discovers FERDINAND and MIRANDA,
  ALL. A Clifford! a Clifford! We'll follow the King and Clifford.
  Ham. Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
    Most welcome, sir!                             [They salute]
    That quicken even with blowing. O thou weed,
    But either it was different in blood-
  Jul. Go ask his name.- If he be married,
    So shall she leave her blessedness to one-
  QUEEN ISABEL. So happy be the issue, brother England,
    To hear him nam'd and cannot come to him,
  BIONDELLO. Tut, fear not me.  
  DUCHESS. What say'st thou? Majesty! I am but Grace.
  CRESSIDA. Excuse me.
     it.
  HECTOR. Thanks, and good night to the Greeks' general.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  TOUCHSTONE. But what is the sport, monsieur, that the ladies have
  WILLIAM STAFFORD. That's false.
  Makes black night beauteous, and her old face new.
    We'll speak with thee at sea; at land thou know'st
  OTHELLO. I will chop her into messes. Cuckold me!  
    The cares I give I have, though given away;

    Bear thee well in it and leave us alone.
    Harp not on that; nor do not banish reason
    Wouldst have me rescue thee from this reproach?
    Where time and outward form would show it dead.
    To sinewy Ajax. I will not praise thy wisdom,
  First he did praise my beauty, then my speech.
    A plague upon it! it is in GIoucestershire-  


    stabbing.
  FALSTAFF. Hang him, poor cuckoldly knave! I know him
  MENECRATES. Know, worthy Pompey,
ANTIPHOLUS OFEPHESUS. Justice, most gracious Duke; O, grant me justice!
  COSTARD. As it shall follow in my correction; and God defend the
    The picture that is hanging in your chamber;
  MENENIUS. Well, well, no more of that.
  CLIFFORD. Ay, crook-back, here I stand to answer thee,
    This is thy work. The object poisons sight;
  ALEXAS. Good Majesty,

    Between the floods of Sala and of Elbe;
    fish- was, when at the relation of the Queen's death, with the

    I fear we should have seen decipher'd there

    And then to have a wretched puling fool,
    water; for my belly's as cold as if I had swallow'd
    have not yet. The roof of this court is too high to be yours, and
     and afterwards CARDINAL
  LEONTES. You have mistook, my lady,
    To see how fortune is dispos'd to us;
  PAULINA. Good my liege, I come-


     glass-gazing, superserviceable, finical rogue;
  Rom. What is her mother?
  EMILIA, his wife, lady-in-waiting to Desdemona
  Lady. Ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time;
    In loathsome beds, and leav'st the kingly couch
    The best courtier of them all, when the court lay at Windsor,
  REIGNIER. Salisbury is a desperate homicide;
    speed.
    And welcome home again discarded faith.  
    The Duke of York, to know what pricks you on
    To stale't a little more.
    I am bound by oath, and therefore pardon me.            Exit
    But, for my will, my will is, your good will
  ROMAN. I know you well, sir, and you know me; your name, I think,
    influence of the most receiv'd star; and though the devil lead
    Of greatest port, have all persuaded with him;
    To parley with the sole inheritor
    To Gregory de Cassado, to conclude,
    These numbers will I tear, and write in prose.
    Thy husband he is dead, and for his death
    Will then cry out of Marcius 'O, if he
    'Your love says, like an honest gentleman,
  DESDEMONA. He speaks well.
    That such a crafty devil as is his mother
  What, was I married to her in my dream?
    Here, Hume, take this reward; make merry, man,
  APEMANTUS. Would all those flatterers were thine enemies then, that
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
                         with IMOGEN
  CHARLES. Mars his true moving, even as in the heavens
  King. Set me the stoups of wine upon that table.
  Pedro. An he should, it were an alms to hang him! She's an
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.

     draw!

  KATHARINE. Prithee, good Griffith, tell me how he died.
    What is the matter with our cousin now?
  KING RICHARD. Rode he on Barbary? Tell me, gentle friend,
    Even in the downfall of his mellow'd years,
    I fear me, lords, for all this flattering gloss,
    Who cannot keep his wealth must keep his house.         Exit
  CAPUCIUS. Most willing, madam.
    Was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd.
    It is not, nor it cannot come to good.

    If you do keep your promises in love
    Here come our wives, and let us take our leave.
  HOSTESS. Good Corporal Nym, show thy valour, and put up your sword.
  GRUMIO. Help, masters, help! My master is mad.
    Like a true friar. Moe reasons for this action
    May hold together. On her frights and griefs,

  CLOWN. O Lord, sir!-Spare not me.
    I hope this reason stands for my excuse.
    The precious image of our dear Redeemer,
                       Enter the BANDITTI
    That is an old device, and it was play'd  
  LUCIO. Sir, I know him, and I love him.
    her fortune, her marriage-dowry; with both, her combinate
  When thou reviewest this, thou dost review,
    What, are you gone again? You must be watch'd ere you be made
    I am sorry for thy much misgovernment.
    Ajax to invite the most valorous Hector to come unarm'd to my
    pass'd between you and Claudio.
  ALL SERVANTS. Gramercies, good fool. How does your mistress?
    In this vile action; for the success,
    They that least lend it you shall lack you first.
    Are servanted to others. Though I owe
    prove the better counterfeit. Therefore I'll make him sure; yea,
    Or heard him say- as knaves be such abroad,
    Either to get the town again or die;
  these blows long, I must get a sconce for my head, and
    Against the envy of less happier lands;
    Or not my father's; for I cannot be

    Even as I would, when I to love begin.
    Thy father's ground.
    If he should break his day, what should I gain
  PISANIO. How fares my mistress?
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Why, he is dead.
    Which is the god of my idolatry,
    But when they would seem soldiers, they have galls,
    I will both hear and grant you your requests.
    To speak, as from his mouth, what he doth know  
    I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
  DAUPHIN. Be warn'd by me, then: they that ride so, and ride not

    We would not die in that man's company
    The muzzle of restraint, and the wild dog
                      Enter another MESSENGER  
    From whence doth spring the true Promethean fire.
  COSTARD. With a wench.
  AUFIDIUS. Name not the god, thou boy of tears-
    Not worshipp'd with a waxen epitaph.
    Your son in Scotland being thus employ'd,
    After the hideous storm that follow'd, was
  PUCK. Ho, ho, ho! Coward, why com'st thou not?
    apprehended with the aforesaid swain- I keep her as a vessel of  
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Our Lady help my lord! He'll be forsworn.
  GLOUCESTER. What means this noise?
    To hurl at the beholders of my shame;
  OLIVIA. If I think so, I think the same of you.

  THESEUS. Say, what abridgment have you for this evening?
    Make wells and Niobes of the maids and wives,

    sir, and my name is Dromio.
    'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
    Of wondrous virtues. Sometimes from her eyes

    I'll put it to the issue.                                  Exeunt
  ISABELLA. I have a brother is condemn'd to die;
  ORLEANS. What a wretched and peevish fellow is this King of
    bear a gentleman in hand, and then stand upon security! The
  FALSTAFF. 'Tis so.

    That hunger broke stone walls, that dogs must eat,
  THESEUS. He is no crescent, and his horns are invisible within the
    By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
  Until life's composition be recured,
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Why, brother Rivers, are you yet to learn
  PATROCLUS. Both take and give.
    As I have heard my father speak himself,
They march over and go out.  Alarums.  Then enter again, in skirmish,
    Your long coat, priest, protects you; thou shouldst feel
  MESSENGER. He, more incens'd against your Majesty
    Abate thy hours! Shine comforts from the east,
    When he would play the noble beast in love.
    Accompany the greatness of thy blood  
    Am yet a courtier beggarly-nor could
    Back to our brother of England.
  BOY. Help, grandsire, help! my aunt Lavinia
    very fool and a prodigal.
                              Exeunt all but APEMANTUS and TIMON
    John. You owe me money, Sir John, and now you pick a quarrel to  
    world drink brown and white bastard.
    Good king, great king, and yet not greatly good,
    Will come to know his destiny.  
                                                [He stabs TITUS]
    That he'll enjoin me to.
                      ACT IV. SCENE I.

    You may imagine him upon Blackheath;
  LAUNCE. Thou shalt never get such a secret from me but by a
    liv'd still, if knowledge could be set up against mortality.
     Great rivals in our youngest daughter's love,
  LAUNCELOT. In very brief, the suit is impertinent to myself, as
    At our great bidding?
    We rest your hermits.
  PANDARUS. That's Hector, that, that, look you, that; there's a
  Ber. Sit down awhile,
  DAUPHIN. Mount them, and make incision in their hides,

    think I should live till I were married.
    husband, this well-seeming Angelo.
    Wiped the black scruples, reconciled my thoughts
    And do not know ourselves; when we hold rumor
    Both taxing me and gaging me to keep
    this is brave now. Who said he came hurt home to-day? He's not

    down since Robin Ostler died.
    hang'd with your about your necks? Hath my sword therefore broke
    That this lives in thy mind? What seest thou else
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. And wilt thou learn of me?
  Rom. How should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
  VALENTINE. Nay, sure, I think she holds them prisoners still.
    Fain would mine eyes be witness with mine ears
  AUMERLE. Madam, I know not, nor I greatly care not.
  Thy registers and thee I both defy,
  Nurse. You say well.
  NORFOLK. So I hear.
                    Enter YORK
    horse.
    this?
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Many a man would take you at your word,
    You may deny me; but I'll be your servant,
    But that which ends all counsel, true redress-
    Here could I breathe my soul into the air,
  KING. What say'st thou to her?
  THESEUS. Fair lovers, you are fortunately met;
    Or breed itself so out of circumstances,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  Which princes, would they, may not disannul,
    lies in your eye; if not, be it his that finds it.
    Plays fondly with her tears and smiles in meeting,
    Of speaking first. Sweet, bid me hold my tongue,
    I dare your worst objections. If I blush,

  CHIEF JUSTICE. But since all is well, keep it so: wake not a
    Unworthy though thou art, I'll cope with thee,

    The dews of heaven fall thick in blessings on her!-
    Of present death.

     Should have thus little mercy on their flesh?  
    That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;

  MACBETH. To know my deed, 'twere best not know myself.
  SALISBURY. I grieve to hear what torments you endur'd;
  AUTOLYCUS. I am robb'd, sir, and beaten; my money and apparel ta'en
    her folly, for I will be horribly in love with her. I may chance
  BLANCH. That's the curse of Rome.
  That since have felt the vigour of his rage.
  Guil. Is in his retirement, marvellous distemper'd.  
    But this is worshipful society,  
    tell.
    And with my best endeavours in your absence
  Queen. How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!  
    And would my father had left me no more!
  Ros. Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? You do surely
    And kept his credit with his purse;
                          Enter CLEOPATRA
  QUEEN KATHARINE. I am sorry that the Duke of Buckingham
    Start not; her actions shall be holy as
    But soft! What light through yonder window breaks?
  MOPSA.     Thou hast sworn it more to me.
  WILLIAMS. I will none of your money.
    Richard shall live to make the Earl of Warwick
    Till we assign you to your days of trial
    And pour our treasures into foreign laps,
  Hor. Do not, my lord!
  ENOBARBUS. Would you praise Caesar, say 'Caesar'- go no further.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    And Tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband.
    We are yours i' th' garden. Shall's attend you there?
    Let him have all the rigour of the law.
    That honourable grief lodg'd here which burns  
    And will you, nill you, I will marry you.
    As fool and fight is, beside forfeiting
    Had been the Regent there instead of me,
    When, lo, to interrupt my purpos'd rest,
    Pardon, my liege, that I have stay'd so long.
    will keep my sides to myself, my shoulders for the fellow
    Be living and be here?
    To old Freetown, our common judgment place.
    Or came it by request, and such fair question
  SIR TOBY. How is't with you, man?
       So dying love lives still.
    By this Lord Angelo perceives he's safe;
    appears by their bare liveries that they live by your bare words.
  MESSENGER. I crave your Highness' pardon.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE



  KING. My honour's at the stake; which to defeat,  
     Either his notion weakens, his discernings  
    Why, 'tis a cockle or a walnut-shell,
    Hate all, curse all, show charity to none,
  Glou. No, truly.
            Enter CORIOLANUS, marching with drum and colours;
    And I have bred her at my dearest cost
    Doomsday is near. Die all, die merrily.
    Your heaviest censure.
    Henry VI; afterwards married to the Duke of Gloucester

    Shall I do that which all the Parthian darts,
    her; and sworn to make the "not" eternal. You shall hear I am run
    the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, he is all mirth.
    I'll hide my silver beard in a gold beaver,
    In envy that my Lord Northumberland
  TIMON. I pray let them be admitted.
  PRINCE. Peto, how now! What news?
  TROILUS. She strokes his cheek.
    And now both rivals, to mock Helena.
    So shines a good deed in a naughty world.
  OLIVIA. What mean'st thou by that, Malvolio?
    You may so in the end.
    Who shall take notice of thee. I'll move the King
  POSTHUMUS. Proceed.


  IAGO. My lord, for aught I know.
    Let it be granted you have seen all this, and praise
    We recommend to you, Tribunes of the People,
    to need my death.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    The subject of our watch.
  What can mine own praise to mine own self bring:
  TITUS. I thank your Majesty and her, my lord;
  Ham. Now, mother, what's the matter?
  FIRST LORD. Farewell, Captain.
  Edm. When I dissuaded him from his intent
    [To her WOMEN]  Alas, poor wenches, where are now
  CAESAR. Adieu; be happy!
    Fly hence and leave me. Think upon these gone;
  My self I'll forfeit, so that other mine,
    His bleeding sword 'twixt England and fair France.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Yea, this man's brow, like to a title-leaf,
    I prize it not a straw, but for mine honour  
  Between them they will kill the conjurer.
    Must I then do't to them?
  ROSALIND. Not out of your apparel, and yet out of your suit.
    Is his head worth a hat or his chin worth a beard?
SCENE VIII.
  And make me travel forth without my cloak,
  ISABELLA. So.
SCENE I.
  THURIO. I'll wear a boot to make it somewhat rounder.
                                                         [Draws]

  FALSTAFF. My devotion-
    Hence with him to the Tower: let him not speak.
    Would run to these and these extremities;
    Intents but merely thoughts.
  HELENA. His name, I pray you.
  Home to the Centaur, with the gold you gave me.
THE TRAGEDY OF HAMLET, PRINCE OF DENMARK
  BEROWNE. O most profane coxcomb!
                                 Exeunt [Gloucester and Edmund].
    allottery my father left me by testament; with that I will go buy

  LADY MACDUFF. Whither should I fly?
    Of his oath-breaking; which he mended thus,
    And am her knight by proof.
    A worthy friend. The King has made him Master
  HOST. Well, husband your device; I'll to the vicar.
  EXETER. What! Is my Lord of Winchester install'd
    Why tender'st thou that paper to me with
    them that too.
  Rom. A thousand times the worse, to want thy light!
  ALEXAS,   attendant on Cleopatra
     If only to go warm were gorgeous,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. The effect of my intent is to cross theirs.
  Either get thee from the door, or sit down at the hatch.
    That he spake to thee?
    An Ate, stirring him to blood and strife;
    Have since miscarried under Bolingbroke.
    That wench is stark mad or wonderful froward.
    is, I do not like her.
  KING. [Reads] 'So it is, besieged with sable-coloured melancholy, I
  VOLUMNIA. If that I could for weeping, you should hear-
    To answer other business. Shrug'st thou, malice?
  Ben. I aim'd so near when I suppos'd you lov'd.
    As, first, good company, good wine, good welcome,
    As for words, whose greatness answers words,
    Butchers and villains! bloody cannibals!
    But with our sword we wip'd away the blot;
  CLOTEN. I would they had not come between us.  
  MESSENGER. Free, madam! No; I made no such report.
  Ham. How long is that since?
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Whose end is purposed by the mighty gods?
    Lands, goods, horse, armour, anything I have,
    I saw him at the Duke Alencon's once;

    If well, he stepp'd before me, happily,
  CLOWN. Truly, sir, the better for my foes and the worse for my
    his head. Dead! 'A would have clapp'd i' th' clout at twelve
    No more shall be the neighbour to my counsels.
    Than to live still, and write mine epitaph.
    And I will answer unpremeditated.
  MESSENGER. Madam, he's well.
  OLD LADY. I'll not come back; the tidings that I bring
  PROTEUS. You have prevail'd, my lord; if I can do it
    Now, on the Sunday following shall Bianca
  ARIEL. I thank thee, master.
    When I am absent, then lie with my wife.
    Must have their voices; neither will they bate
  KING HENRY. I fear thou wilt once more come again for a ransom.
    Upon their spotted souls for this offence!
    Knights of the Garter were of noble birth,
    And cabin in a cave, and bring you up  
  MENENIUS. We are all undone unless
    Should find a running banquet ere they rested
    And, friends, disperse yourselves, but all remember
    If thou didst, then behold that compound.
    the point: if I drown myself wittingly, it argues an act; and an
    to rise and be put to death.
her hands cut off, and her tongue cut out, and ravish'd
    Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
  LEPIDUS. 'Tis noble spoken.
  OTHELLO. Ay.
    That none shall have access unto Bianca

    To make me slave to it; and for your sake
  HELENA. Gentlemen,
    Out of thy garments.
    That is no fleering tell-tale. Hold, my hand.
    So many mermaids, tended her i' th' eyes,
    Trace the conjunction!
  She whom thou gav'st to me to be my wife,
    You grow exceeding strange; must it be so?
    By th' very truth of it, I care not for you,  
  TRANIO. If he be credulous and trust my tale,
  BANQUO. And she goes down at twelve.
  Beat. Yea, signior, and depart when you bid me.
    Be merry, Kate. Some water, here, what, ho!

  SHERIFF OF WILTSHIRE
  Lady. Ay, sir; but she will none, she gives you thanks.
    And at Northampton they do rest to-night;
  SIR TOBY. O, ay, make up that! He is now at a cold scent.
  Nor tender feeling to base touches prone,
  OTHELLO. O, blood, blood, blood!
    Now, when the bridegroom in the morning comes
    And but the backs of Britons seen, an flying,
  MOWBRAY. You wish me health in very happy season,

    The rank of osiers by the murmuring stream
  KING EDWARD. Thanks, brave Montgomery, and thanks unto you all;
    The very persons of our noble story
    Before You visit him, to make inquire
     Gallow the very wanderers of the dark
    livery, that they may agree like brothers and worship me their
Exit.
          The finch, the sparrow, and the lark,
  KING EDWARD. Dorset, embrace him; Hastings, love Lord
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. And why so?

    Rather than have made that savage duke thine heir,

                                    Exeunt CLOTEN and FIRST LORD
    A business for yourself, pray heaven you then  
  CLOWN. Out, hyperbolical fiend! How vexest thou this man!

    Unsounded yet, and full of deep deceit.
    Yea, and to marry her, if her dowry please.
  BUSHY. At Ely House.
    And in it are the Lords of York, Berkeley, and Seymour-
  As compound love to physic your cold breast.
  KING JOHN. Now, by the sky that hangs above our heads,
    a tutor, and discipline come not near thee! Let thy blood be thy
    it pass. I do beseech thee, remember thy courtesy. I beseech

  Kent. Yes, they have.
           O dainty duck! O dear!
    Tearing the Thracian singer in their rage.'
  FLORIZEL. I not purpose it.
    Express'd and not express'd. But when this ring
  RALPH MOULDY
    excelled many; but I have not seen the most precious diamond that
    On the catastrophe and heel of pastime,
    Come, good boy, the next way home.
    call Margaret Hero, hear Margaret term me Claudio; and bring them
    hold me but while one tells twenty.

    Whiles we, God's wrathful agent, do correct

  POMPEY. Whiles we are suitors to their throne, decays
    We'll pass the business privately and well.
    wives are a yoke of his discarded men; very rogues, now
    and truly Master Page is an honest man. Never a wife in
    Th' effect of what I wrote?
    To th' trunk again, and shut the spring of it.
    Gallops the zodiac in his glistening coach
    My custom always of the afternoon,
    That unsubstantial Death is amorous,
    Making the green one red.
    relief, if it be but for that. If I can recover him, and
    the whirligig of time brings in his revenges.
    Your uncle York is join'd with Bolingbroke;
    Devise strange deaths for small offences done?
    He dies to-night.  
    Ariel and all his quality.

  LUCIO, a fantastic
  YORK. She-wolf of France, but worse than wolves of France,

    'Thanks, gentle citizens and friends,' quoth I
    As she is troubled with thick-coming fancies,
  Oph. There's fennel for you, and columbines. There's rue for you,
    But will you woo this wild-cat?  
    and are they not some of them set forward already? What a pagan
  AENEAS. Trumpet, blow loud,
    importune her help to put you in your place again. She is of so
    plood out of your pody, I can tell you that. Got pless it and

    This is the flow'r that smiles on every one,
  AGAMEMNON.Worthy all arms! as welcome as to one

    A poor physician's daughter my wife! Disdain
    That of his bounties taste! The five best Senses
    Knowing I lov'd my books, he furnish'd me
    That he was fain to seal on Cupid's name.
  In the small orb of one particular tear!

    And this shall all be buried in my death,

    'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'
  DUKE SENIOR. If there be truth in sight, you are my daughter.  
  IAGO. O, did he so? I charge you, go with me.
  SICINIUS. On the sudden
    Let us sit down and mark their yellowing noise;
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. And will they so? The gallants shall be task'd,
    Of this diseas'd opinion, and betimes;
  FIRST VARRO'S SERVANT. Well met; good morrow, Titus and Hortensius.
                                                         Exeunt.

      yet?  
  Enter Prince [attended], Old Montague, Capulet, their Wives,
  DUKE. Why, so I do, the noblest that I have.
    So, ere you find where light in darkness lies,
    In Margaret's battle at Saint Albans slain?  
    Of Mars's fiery steed. To other regions!
  CHATILLON. Then take my king's defiance from my mouth-
    I pray you, now receive them.

    innovation.
    have at the very eye of that proverb with 'A pox of the devil!'
    Our Caesar's vesture wounded? Look you here,
  OTHELLO. Fire and brimstone!
    Than in my thought it lies!
    Thisby dear, and lady dear!'
    From year to year, the battles, sieges, fortunes,
  CASSIO. Prithee, say true.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. Alas, good lady!                       [Trumpets]
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. For what reason?
                trumpets sound, with great shouts of the people]
  TROILUS. Well know they what they speak that speak so wisely.
    Will or exceed the common or be caught
  Hot. But soft, I pray you. Did King Richard then
    Your low-laid son our godhead will uplift;
Storm still. Enter Lear, Kent, and Fool.
    That in your chambers gave you chastisement?  
    Thou fumblest, Eros, and my queen's a squire
  JAQUES. How seventh cause? Good my lord, like this fellow.

    Are stronger than mine eyes.
     standing pool; who is whipp'd from tithing to tithing, and
    is the forehead of a married man more honourable than the bare
  Works under you; and to your audit comes
    When I was but your sister: I you brothers,
    shall be exchequers to me; they shall be my East and West
    The most diminutive of birds, will fight,
  PLANTAGENET. Thy humble servant vows obedience
  NERISSA. Do you not remember, lady, in your father's time, a
  DUCHESS. Thou toad, thou toad, where is thy brother
  GAUNT. Will the King come, that I may breathe my last
    Th' other for some while a friend.
   The breath no sooner left his father's body  
  HELENA. Your virtue is my privilege for that:
    For it is parting from us.
    Will play the cook and servant; 'tis our match.
  LUCETTA. I would it were,
  BRUTUS. Come, we'll inform them
  BRUTUS. Farewell, everyone.

    Desires you to attach his son, who has-
    But think her bond of chastity quite crack'd,
    know.
  ULYSSES. [Aside] The raven chides blackness.
    Since presently your souls must part your bodies-
    think you of it?
    there were no more women but Fulvia, then had you indeed a cut,
  TRANIO. That 'only' came well in. Sir, list to me:  
    I cry your mercy, madam; was it you?
    Whatever fortune stays him from his word.
    Appointed to direct these fair designs.
    Give me some sack; and, sweetheart, lie thou there.
    they say, accommodated; or, when a man is being-whereby 'a may be
     And be a thwart disnatur'd torment to her.

  CORNELIUS. By the Queen's dram she swallow'd.
    That ever-valiant and approved Scot,

    He said he would not ransom Mortimer,
  SURREY. The King, that gave it.
    Take you your instrument, play you the whiles!
    till he be three quarters and a dram dead; then recover'd again
    Where she, at least, is banish'd from your eye,

    Macbeth does murther sleep" -the innocent sleep,
    A charge too heavy for my strength; but yet
                      Re-enter MARCUS,
    For ere thou canst report I will be there,
  Ros. To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten

    Where I have hope to see the nuptial
    And therein reverenc'd for their lawful king.
     Forc'd to cry out. Where I could not be honest,
    Thou mightst have sooner got another service;
  DESDEMONA.                   O good Iago,
    High sparks of honour in thee have I seen.
  CASSIO. Let me go, sir, or I'll knock you o'er the mazzard.
    Where shivering cold and sickness pines the clime;
    To try her gracious fortune with Lord Angelo
    Did feast together, and in two years after
    His absolute 'shall'?
    Each syllable that breath made up between them.

  QUINCE. An you should do it too terribly, you would fright the
  that thinks a man always going to bed, and says 'God give
    come after?
                   Re-enter second SERVINGMAN
    Our pleasure?
  DUKE OF EXETER                     EARL OF OXFORD
    better stead thee than now. Put money in thy purse; follow thou
    cup of Madeira and a cold capon's leg?

  Jul. O, swear not by the moon, th' inconstant moon,
    Infortunate in nothing but in thee.
    Peaceful commerce from dividable shores,
    Stood challenger on mount of all the age
    What noise is this I hear? Dare any be so bold to sound retreat
    And take my milk for gall, your murthering ministers,

  From sullen earth) sings hymns at heaven's gate,  

  Hot. I cry you mercy.
  BEROWNE. By yea and nay, sir, then I swore in jest.
    Not dallying with a brace of courtezans,
    It was for Malcolm and for Donalbain
    That downward hath succeeded in his house
    Master Fenton.' This is my doing.
    Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.
     You are much more at task for want of wisdom
  KING. Why, how now, lords, your wrathful weapons drawn
    And thereupon thou speak'st the fairest shoot.
    The earldom of Hereford and all the movables
    I had rather to adopt a child than get it.
    Be not offended, for it hurts not him
    [Drums afar off ] Hark! the drums
The Roman Empire
    And, but for Owen Glendower, had been king,
     compounded with my mother under the Dragon's Tail, and my
    Say that King Edward take thee for his queen?  
    I'll find a day to massacre them all,
    Reigns in my blood, and will rememb'red be.
  CLOWN. Ay, and have been so any time these four hours.
    With envious looks, laughing at thy shame,
  TALBOT. And there will we be too, ere it be long,
    As this hath made me. Who was he that said
  Excusing thy sins more than thy sins are:
    This sword but shown to Caesar, with this tidings,
  But moody and dull melancholy,
  BEROWNE. Necessity will make us all forsworn
    door; who ask'd them once or twice what they had in their
  Pol. What treasure had he, my lord?

    his companion? Is there no young squarer now that will make a
  And that supposed by the common rout
    Reposing on a cushion.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. I will be welcome then; conduct me thither.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  HERMIA. Out, dog! out, cur! Thou driv'st me past the bounds
  WILLIAM. Good ev'n, Audrey.
  France. Bid farewell to your sisters.
    his wife; he will not be jealous; I will rather trust a Fleming
    And, soldiers, stay and lodge by me this night.
    Yet not the son; I will not call him son
    To Bristow Castle, which they say is held
  ALL. The gods assist you!
    This is not well, rash and unbridled boy,
  STARVELING. Here, Peter Quince.
  CRANMER.  [Aside]  'Tis Butts,
    Swear.
  LORENZO. I shall grow jealous of you shortly, Launcelot, if you
    That thou nor none of thine shall be let in.
    He is not guilty of her coming hither.
COURTEZAN. Sir, I must have that diamond from you.

    And from each other look thou lead them thus,
  NORFOLK. Be advis'd:  
    That is the word. I thee defy again.
  Mort. Fie, cousin Percy! how you cross my father!
  CRESSIDA. A pestilence on him! Now will he be mocking.
    That he will neither know how to maintain it
  And strike you home without a messenger.
    after revive, be jointed to the old stock, and freshly grow;
    Who having, by their own importunate suit,
    Were those that went on each side of the Queen?
  KING RICHARD. Where is thy power then, to beat him back?
    Upon my body with their hellish charms?
    I have some rights of memory in this kingdom
    With trees upon't that nod unto the world
    And when thou find'st a man that's like thyself,
    assistance, the King's command, and this most gallant,
Plains wear Tewksbury
ACT I. SCENE 1.


  Even those that said I could not love you dearer,
    Though Bassianus be the Emperor's brother,
    He first presents his fire, and the high east
  BASSET. And I with him; for he hath done me wrong.
  SPEED. 'Item: She can sew.'
     I can produce a champion that will prove
    Before I would have yielded to this league.
  To-day did dine together. So befall my soul

    They that stand high have many blasts to shake them,
  Ros. No indeed are they not.  

          Mercy itself, and frees all faults.
    Can in this book of beauty read 'I love,'
  North. What, drunk with choler? Stay, and pause awhile.
  KING. Here is like to be a good presence of Worthies. He presents
    Our Britain seems as of it, but not in't;
 CANTERBURY. With good acceptance of his Majesty;
     Mumbling of wicked charms, conjuring the moon
  TITUS. Why, villain, art not thou the carrier?
    Romeo! humours! madman! passion! lover!
  Leon. Being that I flow in grief,
         Enter ANTONY and CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS,
    Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
    I know this cannot be.
    And tell her she is thine; to whom I promise
    No servant of thy master's. Against self-slaughter
  ANTIGONUS. If it prove
    again, rather than suffer question for your residence.  
  SHALLOW. He will maintain you like a gentlewoman.
  Fal. Why, Hal, 'tis my vocation, Hal. 'Tis no sin for a man to
    His nobleness well acted, which your death
                            Enter VINCENTIO
    opinions, here's the twin-brother of thy letter; but let thine
    And this brave fellow too- we are the grains:
  MACMORRIS. I do not know you so good a man as myself; so
    But that one half which is unsatisfied,
    Sons to Titus Andronicus:
    My father hath a reason for't.  

  MAMILLIUS. There was a man-
    Doth falsely blind the eyesight of his look.
    If he can carry't thus!
    And I as rich in having such a jewel
    It nothing ill becomes thee.
    Being well arriv'd from Delphos, are both landed,
    Yet will he swear he loves.
        Pardon, goddess of the night,

ANTIPHOLUS OFEPHESUS. Justice, sweet Prince, against that woman there!
  VALENTINE. No, I will not, for it boots thee not.
    Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
  Abram, servant to Montague.
  And in my madness might speak ill of thee,
    come a little nearer this ways.

    Be swift like lightning in the execution,
    because her horse stumbled, how she waded through the dirt to
  AEDILE. With old Menenius, and those senators
                       Enter BIONDELLO
         For some must watch, while some must sleep:

  SIR TOBY. Approach, Sir Andrew. Not to be abed after midnight is to
    Speak unto Talbot; nay, look up to him.
  VALENTINE. No, believe me.
  Hor. Ay, good my lord.
  Glou. You know the character to be your brother's?
    When down her weedy trophies and herself
    there is such odds in the man. In pity of the challenger's youth
    A friend should bear his friend's infirmities,
    We hold our town for neither, yet for both.
    Our slaught'red friends the tackles; what of these?  
  ABERGAVENNY. A proper tide of a peace, and purchas'd
    Should from encounter guard. Could I find out
    To tear with thunder the wide cheeks o' th' air,
    And so I was, which plainly signified
    The copy of your speed is learn'd by them,
  OCTAVIUS. Prick him down, Antony.
  CITIZEN. In brief: we are the King of England's subjects;
    Owe their estates unto him.
    And triumphs over chance in honour's bed.  
    affirm it.
  KING RICHARD. A lunatic lean-witted fool,
    But this our purpose now is twelvemonth old,
            Re-enter attendants with AARON
  MRS. PAGE. Is he at Master Ford's already, think'st thou?
    Unto the judge that begg'd it, and indeed
    moonshine, find out moonshine.
  WARWICK. Behold, my Lord of Winchester, the Duke
    with the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath, never trust my
    But to command, to check, to o'erbear such
  LORD BARDOLPH. Who- he?
  Kent. O pity! Sir, where is the patience now
    God pardon him! I do, with all my heart;
  BASSANIO. O sweet Portia,
Enter Gloucester, Lear, Kent, Fool, and Edgar.
    Might yet enkindle you unto the crown,
  Bene. I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and so good a
    Do all lie there. It shall be so my care
    And I, that haply take them from him now,
  ANTONY. Tug him away. Being whipt,
    Here in the court, of all he dies possess'd
    Now, Mars, I prithee, make us quick in work,
    Inferreth arguments of mighty strength,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    which I had rather seal with my death than repeat over to my  
      Enter CLEOPATRA and her maids aloft, with CHARMIAN
Rome. Before the Capitol; the Senate sitting above.
    It is not night when I do see your face,


  SHALLOW. Shall I prick him, Sir John?
                     26  
    They turn to vicious forms, ten times more ugly
    I am to wait, though waiting so be hell,
    In suit the place of's bed, and win this ring
  1. Watch. Hugh Oatcake, sir, or George Seacoal; for they can write
    In that be made more bitter. Fear o'ershades me.
  GRATIANO. Why, this is like the mending of highways
    Of eyes again so royal! Your crown's awry;
                 How begot, how nourished?
    These dead men's tombs.
  Prince. Thou art perfect.
    'In terram Salicam mulieres ne succedant'-
    Or, if he do, let it at least be said
      be-
  Be anchored in the bay where all men ride,
  FIRST WITCH. A sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap,
    Became the accents of the valiant;
    Pages, and footboys.
    Rated mine uncle from the Council board;
    living daughter curb'd by the will of a dead father. Is it not
  SOMERSET. Prick not your finger as you pluck it off,
  O, all that borrowed motion, seeming owed,
    mine,
    To carry that which I would have refus'd,

  The sun it self sees not, till heaven clears.
    But wherefore do I tell these news to thee
  Nurse. There's no trust,
  West. Ay, but, Sir John, methinks they are exceeding poor and bare-
    Shall, whiles thy head is warm and new cut off,
    By what we can, which can no more but fly.
  IAGO.                     Call up her father,
  ALL. Come, let's be gone.                               Exeunt
    Hard as the palm of ploughman! This thou tell'st me,
     I look'd not for you yet, nor am provided
    his fact, till now in the government of Lord Angelo, came not to
    Young Arthur's death is common in their mouths;
    Now take upon me, in the name of Time,
Enter the QUEEN and her women, as at work
    I'll mark no words that smooth-fac'd wooers say.
  PAROLLES. Save you, fair queen!
    Think'st thou to catch my life so pleasantly
    Entirely to her love, but if she lost it
    Seyton, send out. Doctor, the Thanes fly from me.
    To thick-ey'd musing and curs'd melancholy?
  SPEED. And yet it cannot overtake your slow purse.
    Muse not that I thus suddenly proceed;
    left, I'll bury it.
    But with a crafty madness keeps aloof
  ANGELO. And his offence is so, as it appears,  
    trembling.
  KING. If it were yours by none of all these ways,
    Not body's death, but body's banishment.
  KING EDWARD. Away with her; go, bear her hence perforce.  
  Hot. Welcome, Sir Walter Blunt, and would to God
    What says this leaden casket?
                       [Clown digs and] sings.
    How irksome is this music to my heart!
    To pluck proud Lucius from the warlike Goths.
  King. How fares our cousin Hamlet?
    them is fat, and grows old. God help the while! A bad world, I
    I thought upon one pair of English legs
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  

       his head, bearing a long white wand, as High Steward.
    There stuck no plume in any English crest

    I see, as in a map, the end of all.
     long from you.
  EDWARD, PRINCE OF WALES, his son
  MARIA. Come, come, you talk greasily; your lips grow foul.  
    Which if they do, yet will I keep thee safe,
  OLIVER. What, you wrestle to-morrow before the new Duke?
  Ham. I'll be with you straight. Go a little before.  
    So, so. Come, give me that. This way. Well said.

  To the clear day with thy much clearer light,
    We need no grave to bury honesty;
    Having receiv'd the punishment before
                      Enter PROTEUS and LAUNCE
ACT_4|SC_13
  ARVIRAGUS. You holp us, sir,
    desire you that we may be friends; and let us knog our prains
    the hip upward, no doublet. Unless he have a fancy to this
    And Brutus is an honorable man.


  VOLSCE. He cannot choose. I am most fortunate thus accidentally to
    say you?
                                               Exeunt severally.
    Who please to come and hear. For life, I prize it
    Even to the opposed end of our intents;
    That I, thy enemy, due thee withal;
    The blind and bloody with foul hand
    You are not ignorant all-telling fame

    Their candles are all out. Take thee that too.
    liveth, is to be no counterfeit, but the true and perfect image
  LADY MACBETH. You must leave this.
    Son to the Queen, after his own report;
    More grave and wrinkled than the aims and ends
    Shall waft them over with our royal fleet.
    have a care the honey-bag break not; I would be loath to have you  
  PAROLLES. Virginity being blown down, man will quicklier be blown  
  Whose bare out-bragged the web it seemed to wear:
  SIR TOBY. [To VIOLA] There's no remedy, sir: he will fight with you
    Would take no notice, nor build yourself a trouble
    Retire to win our purpose.
    And with his spirits sadly I survive,

    That so approve the Moor! O, let the heavens
  FALSTAFF. Because their legs are both of a bigness, and 'a plays at
  CONSTABLE. O peace, Prince Dauphin!
      sum
    is ever lost. 'Tis too cold a companion; away with't.
    should have given 't you to-day morning, but as a madman's

    The other, though unfinish'd, yet so famous,

  
  CHIEF JUSTICE. You speak as having power to do wrong; but answer in
    'Gainst the Pannonians and Dalmatians,
    pissing conduit run nothing but claret wine this first year of
    I know my price, I am worth no worse a place.
    Whereof we have record, trial did draw
    More than with ruthless waves, with sands, and rocks.
    Just of his colour. What if we do omit
    And may direct his course as please himself,
    Cast by their grave beseeming ornaments
    The shadow of my sorrow? Ha! let's see.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Where Scotland?
    Alas! has banish'd me his bed already,

    Believe me, she has had much wrong. Lord Cardinal,
    Thus plated in habiliments of war;
      The Ghost of Banquo enters and sits in Macbeth's place.
    And, where that you you have vow'd to study, lords,
    This bald unjointed chat of his, my lord,
    Whose golden touch could soften steel and stones,
    the ale with a Christian. Wilt thou go?
A street
            EXETER, and others, with prisoners. Flourish
    To lead their business; in which regard,

  BOYET. She says you have it, and you may be gone.
  SECOND SERVANT. An he had been cannibally given, he might have
    Even in the cannon's mouth. And then the justice,
  BUCKINGHAM. Marry, my lord, lest by a multitude
    And with Demetrius thought to have spoke thereof;

  FORESTER. Hereby, upon the edge of yonder coppice;
  WOLSEY. Cromwell, I did not think to shed a tear
     imperfections of long-ingraffed condition, but therewithal
    Show me a mistress that is passing fair,
    Shall lay your stately and air braving towers,
  ACHILLES. What comes the general to speak with me?
    And, like the watchful minutes to the hour,
  If any friend will pay the sum for him,
    But thou wilt brave me with these saucy terms?
ADRIANA. There's none but asses will be bridled so.
    My head with more ill news, for it is fun.
  KING. 'that shallow vassal,'

    When Helen is a maid again, and his.
    And he supposes me travell'd to Poland;
  Ros. Most like a gentleman.
    Whose ignorant credulity will not
    Whose hearts are absent too.
    To look upon the hideous god of war
    For whose dear sake thou didst then rend thy faith
    Our terrible approach.
The plain between Troy and the Grecian camp
  KING. 'Tis well said again;
    Against the Scot, who will make road upon us
    seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the

    Or is it fantasy that plays upon our eyesight?
  SIR TOBY. What, what?
    been often bound for no less than my life.
    That he which hath your noble father slain
    And give them title, knee, and approbation,  
    That thine own trip shall be thine overthrow?
    If she do frown, 'tis not in hate of you,
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Thou art always figuring diseases in me, but thou
    Where is the Dauphin? Come, come from behind;
    foot of the ladder, and by-and-by in as high a flow as the ridge
    My Lord of Burgundy, we'll take your oath,
    That which his noble ancestors achiev'd with blows.
    am for the house with the narrow gate, which I take to be too
    Did ever in so true a flame of liking
    love of Beatrice.
    We have jaded out o' th' field.
    But failing of her end by his strange absence,
    Take't up, I say; give't to thy crone.
    Though honesty be no puritan, yet it will do no hurt; it will
    No reckoning made, but sent to my account
  In company, I often glanced it;
  QUEEN. No, be assur'd you shall not find me, daughter,
    ne'er drank sack in my life; and if you give me any conserves,
    Where feed'st thou a days, Apemantus?
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  FORD. I am blest in your acquaintance. Do you know Ford,
  BANQUO. Look to the lady.

  Will you send him, mistress, redemption, the money in his desk?
  KING HENRY. I'll send some holy bishop to entreat;
    If not, how best to bear it.  

  Hor. Is't possible?
    codpiece of a purse; I would have fil'd keys off that hung in
    Which weighs upon the heart?
  DIOMEDES. Troilus, I say! Where's Troilus?
    Join with the traitor; and they jointly swear
     sick in fortune, often the surfeit of our own behaviour, we make

  BERTRAM. The best wishes that can be forg'd in your thoughts be
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Do you hear, you minion? You'll let us in, I hope?
  PETRUCHIO, a gentleman of Verona, a suitor to Katherina
    No sneaping winds at home, to make us say
  FIRST SENATOR. Farewell.
  Hor. My lord, the King your father.
    Were he in favor as in humor alter'd.
    Upon my life, began her devilish practices;
  Both wind and tide stays for this gentleman,

    And what's untimely done. [So haply slander-]
  TOUCHSTONE. No, truly; for the truest poetry is the most feigning,
    particulars therein to a total.
    But that's no fault of his. We must receive him
    Idly suppos'd the founder of this law;
    As draw his sword; yet he hath left undone
    And she speaks for you stoutly. The Moor replies
     My train are men of choice and rarest parts,
    Stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes,
    They ne'er did service for't; being press'd to th' war  
    And stand between two churchmen, good my lord;
    But sadly tell me who.
    Save in the constant image of the creature
    'Harry of England, I am thine.' Which word thou shalt no sooner
  STEWARD. Pardon me, madam;
    Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus
    And they have earn'd the waste. Poor Antony!          Exeunt
    Even so quickly may one catch the plague?
    With eye-offending brine; all this to season
  TROILUS. Walk into her house.
    With winds that sailors rail at.
  THIRD MURTHERER. Who did strike out the light?

  Lear. A plague upon you, murderers, traitors all!
  LEWIS. Whate'er it be, be thou still like thyself,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SECOND MERCHANT, to whom Angelo is a debtor

    unjust things; and to conclude, they are lying knaves.
  The Three Witches
    It is the show and seal of nature's truth,
  Doct. Madam, sleeps still.
  VIOLA. With the same haviour that your passion bears
  GREMIO. What, this gentleman will out-talk us all!
    And would be glad he met with some mischance,
    Great Earl of Washford, Waterford, and Valence,
    Continues still a Jove.                                 Exit
    And he did render him the most unnatural
  PROVOST. None, since the curfew rung.
    The midwife and the nurse well made away,
    My banquet is to close our stomachs up
  CHIRON. I blush to think upon this ignomy.
  ACHILLES. Marry, this, sir, is proclaim'd through all our host,
    yet it is not; it is but so so. Art thou wise?
    On that advantage, bought with such a shame,
    No, No! This shall forbid it. Lie thou there.
  West. In faith,  
  Ham. It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
    Let me go grind their bones to powder small,
    To one that would do thus. I am half through:
  POSTHUMUS. I do believe  
              Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY and
              and two or three of the guard
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  Against the thing he sought he would exclaim;
    Have lost a brace of kinsmen. All are punish'd.
    am a hawk. He trots the air; the earth sings when he touches it;


  LUCENTIO. And then?
    And patches will I get unto these cudgell'd scars,
    Your potent and infectious fevers heap
  From thy behaviour, beauty doth he give
SCENE II.

    To see your Grace.
    And then to horse immediately.
                      SONG.
    And, by the grace of God and this mine arm,


  CYMBELINE. How? my issue?
    By this vile conquest shall attain unto.
  AARON. Lucius, save the child,
                      Enter AENEAS
    Caesar's ambition shall be glanced at.
    We'll higher to the mountains; there secure us.
    I now am full resolv'd to take a wife
  ANTIGONUS. And I wish, my liege,
    Rail thou in Fulvia's phrase, and taunt my faults
    me see, let me see, let me see. So, so, so, so,- so, so- yea,
  Claud. God bless me from a challenge!
    Dead though she be, she feels her young one kick;
    And are enforc'd from our most quiet there
  NORTHUMBERLAND. What news, Lord Bardolph? Every minute now
  Bard. My lord?
    Not meaning to partake with me in danger,
  ARIEL. Safely in harbour
    Ready, when time shall prompt them, to make road
    Uncertain of the issue any way.
  BASSANIO, his friend, suitor to Portia
    You, madam, for you are more nobly born,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Go hie thee presently post to the road;
    To assist my simpleness.


    Your enemies, with nodding of their plumes,
  FRENCH SOLDIER. Est-il impossible d'echapper la force de ton bras?  
    a lender than you are; the which hath something
    And that shall lend a kind of easiness
    She made good view of me; indeed, so much  
  KING. Saint Cupid, then! and, soldiers, to the field!
    what already I have foolishly suffered.

    against it; for man is a giddy thing, and this is my conclusion.

  FIRST LORD. So 'tis reported, sir.
    I find my zenith doth depend upon
    A pound of flesh, to be by him cut off
    And when I give occasion of offence
    Then was the time for words. No going then!
    He has brave utensils-for so he calls them-
  Pedro. Why, what's the matter?

    With that which, but by being so retir'd,
    That he is a traitor, foul and dangerous,
    Therefore I tell my sorrows to the stones;
  HUBERT.  [Aside]  If I talk to him, with his innocent prate
    That thou hadst call'd me all these bitter names.
Enter DROMIO OF EPHESUS, with a rope's-end
    Yield him, who all thy human sons doth hate,
    are to me nothing, so in nothing bless them, and to nothing are
    have dark deeds darkly answered; he would never bring them to  
  CORIOLANUS. Under the canopy.
    And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
     accent was a plain knave, which, for my part, I will not be,
  Saw how deceits were gilded in his smiling;
    Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw!
  Big discontents so breaking their contents.
  COUNTESS. What angel shall
    stealing out of a French hose. Come in, tailor; here you may
    cannot tell.
    Now for the bare-pick'd bone of majesty
    Were a sufficient briber for his life.
    thou be so shrewd of thy tongue.  
    displeasure.
  AUFIDIUS. You keep a constant temper.


    For those that were, it is not square to take,

    The King hath yielded unto thy demand:
    And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again,
    Here's much to do with hate, but more with love.
  SIR JOHN STANLEY

    Both who he is and why he cometh hither  
  MESSENGER. Your lordship ever binds him.
    With pay and thanks; and let's away to London
  SUFFOLK. Madam, myself have lim'd a bush for her,
    So much as this fact comes to? [Reads] 'Do't. The letter  
    Wotting no more than I, are ignorant.
    That I did pluck allegiance from men's hearts,
    when I might see from far some forty truncheoners draw

  Glou. No? What needed then that terrible dispatch of it into your
    Sirs, what's o'clock?

  Glou. Well, my good lord, I have inform'd them so.
     Stand in assured loss. Take up, take up!
    It waves you to a more removed ground.
  ROSALIND. Are you not good?
    His head by nature fram'd to wear a crown,
Fields between Dartford and Blackheath
    traveller, and wild Halfcan that stabb'd Pots, and, I think,
    Farewell. Thou canst not teach me to forget.
      Exhal'st this vapour-vow; in thee it is.

    So thou wilt send thy gentle heart before
    harms.


    In bitterness. The common executioner,
  And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,
    Farewell, good Master Oliver. Not-
    Sicinius Velutus, and I know not. 'Sdeath!
  QUEEN. 'Tis nothing less: conceit is still deriv'd
    Whose tongue shall ask me for one penny cost
    For even the day before, she broke her brow;
    When Oxford had me down, he rescued me
    My being here it is that holds thee hence.
    With any scruple: your scope is as mine own,
  Leon. The revellers are ent'ring, brother. Make good room.
  KING HENRY. No, faith, is't not, Kate; but thy speaking of my
    something to know it.
    O, speak!
     By those that feel their sharpness.
    Were jocund and suppos'd their states were sure,  
    Go, bring them in; and take your places, ladies.
    Colour her working with such deadly wounds;
Enter the KING, with BAGOT and GREEN, at one door;
    Yet know-my master, God omnipotent,
    and show you the picture. [Unveiling] Look you, sir, such a one I

ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I think I had; I never did deny it.
    Which should be thine or his. Silenced with that,
  FALSTAFF. What are they? Let us know.

  CRESSIDA. Who were those went by?
  Verg. Here, here comes Master Signior Leonato, and the sexton too.
  ALL. We know't, we know't.
    The gallant, young, and noble gentleman,
    Than seek a dispensation for his oath,
    Rinaldo, you did never lack advice so much
    my venison, Master Shallow.
    Like Turk to Christian. Women's gentle brain
    And weigh thee down to ruin, shame, and death!
    shalt soon feel, to thy cold comfort, for being slow in thy hot
    For that I do suspect the lusty Moor

  ROSALIND. My father lov'd Sir Rowland as his soul,
  JACK CADE, a rebel
    But till the troops come by,
    So is she heir of Naples; 'twixt which regions
    Achilles is a fool to be commanded of Agamemnon; Thersites is a
    Unknown to the beginning.

    Whose overweening arm I have pluck'd back,
    I would not be a young count in your way
    And in submission will attend on her.
  CARDINAL. My liege, his railing is intolerable.
    May know wherefore we took the sacrament,
    Signior Lucio, did not you say you knew that Friar Lodowick to be
                                                      Exeunt fighting
    I wore his sword Philippan.
  There is a purse of ducats; let her send it.
  FOURTH CITIZEN. A ring, stand round.
    The French are bravely in their battles set,
    say what she will, take all, pay all, go to bed when she
  QUEEN MARGARET. Who can be patient in such extremes?
                   Enter Polonius.
    'marry trap' with you, if you run the nuthook's humour on  
    Do hear what we do.
  GLOUCESTER. And that I love the tree from whence thou sprang'st,
    To the very moment that he bade me tell it:
    top of my bent.- I will come by-and-by.
    Her suit is now to repossess those lands;
    Thus high, by thy advice
    Of two most rare affections! Heavens rain grace
    None about Caesar trust but Proculeius.
  COSTARD. O Lord, sir, they would know
ACT V. Scene I.
      Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY, the purse borne before
    Not light them for themselves; for if our virtues
SCENE 3.
    For this, amongst the rest, was I ordain'd.
    And calls herself Revenge, and thinks me mad.
    Professes to persuade-the King his son's alive,
                            Enter Lucius.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Harp on it still shall I till heartstrings
    To bring a slovenly unhandsome corse
     By your allowance; which if you should, the fault
    I come to observe; I give thee warning on't.
    May stand more proper, my eye shall be the stream
    Now, by the jealous queen of heaven, that kiss
  Cap. Young Romeo is it?
ACT II. SCENE I.
    Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
  Ham. An earnest conjuration from the King,
  Rom. (rises) Nurse-

The rebel camp near Shrewsbury.
    'Tis said, my liege, in Yorkshire are in arms.
    You speak not like yourself, who ever yet
    As fresh as morning dew distill'd on flowers?
     She that herself will sliver and disbranch
  Fal. How? the Prince is a Jack, a sneak-cup. 'Sblood, an he were
  THESEUS. Now is the moon used between the two neighbours.
  BUCKINGHAM. Now, in good time, here comes the Duke of
    health; in which time I will make a lip at the physician. The
  IAGO. Ay, there's the point, as- to be bold with you-
    If any rebel or vain spirit of mine
    Receive my tears, and seem to weep with me;
    Prince Florizel, my son? Kings are no less unhappy, their issue
    Why should you fall into so deep an O?
    Of hardiness is mother. Ho! who's here?
  EDWARD. Lord Stafford's father, Duke of Buckingham,
    I'll find a fairer face not wash'd to-day.
    And make thy fortunes proud. The blow thou hadst
    And pill by law. Maid, to thy master's bed:
    You saw the mistress, I beheld the maid;
    Come, give's some sack.
  And pay the sum that may deliver me.
    I have from your Sicilian shores dismiss'd;
    Cannot pick out five such, take each one in his vein.
    The patron of my life and liberty.
  Mess. O, he's return'd, and as pleasant as ever he was.
  Friar. A gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips-

    Upon their ancient malice will forget
    From Tamworth thither is but one day's march.
    Doth love my daughter, and she loveth him,
    strange Indian with the great tool come to court, the
    Till they have snar'd the shepherd of the flock,
  YORK. What, worse than nought? Nay, then a shame take all!  
  SON. Was my father a traitor, Mother?
    At two o'clock in the afternoon.
    Dead, sure; and this his grave. What's on this tomb
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    And not be tied unto his brother's will.
  And for the peace of you I hold such strife

    Buy thou the cottage, pasture, and the flock,
Enter SOLANIO and SALERIO
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    And what love can do, that dares love attempt.
    Than could his war resisted.
    To Edmund Langley, Edward the Third's fifth son, son.
    And at the time of my departure thence


  Osr. Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith. Sir, here is
    Pirates may make cheap pennyworths of their pillage,
    still him in praise; and being present both,
    Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part
    And he does chide with you.
    Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
  SECOND LORD. As't please your lordship. I'll leave you.   Exit
  MARCUS. Kinsmen, shoot all your shafts into the court;
  CHARLES. O, no; for the Duke's daughter, her cousin, so loves her,

    'Tis mightiest in the mightiest; it becomes
    Never so truly happy, my good Cromwell.
  MENAS. For my part, I am sorry it is turn'd to a drinking.
    Thou hadst been better have been born a dog
             Think but this, and all is mended,
    Then after fight who shall be king of it?
  PHILARIO. Let us leave here, gentlemen.
    Beyond the river we'll encamp ourselves,
  BOLINGBROKE. Sweet peace conduct his sweet soul to the bosom
    Near twenty years ago in Genoa,
  THIRD CITIZEN. When clouds are seen, wise men put on
    Must your bold verdict enter talk with lords?'
    Before you hazard; for, in choosing wrong,
    man to bow in the hams.
  PETRUCHIO. I say she shall. And first begin with her.
    say. We will give you sleepy drinks, that your senses,
    For if the trial of the law o'ertake ye  
    This true which they so seem to fear. Go home,
    Never to be infected with delight,  
                           Enter MICHAEL
  Then what could death do if thou shouldst depart,
  PERDITA. O, but, sir,
    I'll love no friend sith love breeds such offense.
    Save these in bonds. Let them be joyful too,
    To be depender on a thing that leans,
  WARWICK. We do remember; but our argument
    will come this way by and by, and then we may deliver our
             Every elf and fairy sprite
  FIRST VARRO'S SERVANT. Yes, mine's three thousand crowns; what's
  Jul. Yond light is not daylight; I know it, I.
      Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' th' air to stick.
    Methought you saw a serpent. What's in 'mother'
  
    abundance, and the lightness of his wife shines through it; and
    the forest, like fringe upon a petticoat.
    Cries out upon abuses, seems to weep

    Seems he a dove? His feathers are but borrow'd,
                                                         Exeunt.
  Glou. He that will think to live till he be old,
                              Exeunt [all but Albany and Edgar].
    To these sorrows.                                     Exeunt
    May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
    Whether I have been to blame or no, I know not:
    Be friends, for shame, my lords! My Lord of Canterbury,
  PLANTAGENET. O uncle, would some part of my young years
  MOTH. Which the base vulgar do call three.
    And bowl'd to death with turnips.  
Enter Banquo and Fleance, bearing a torch before him.
  SIR TOBY. No, sir; it is legs and thighs. Let me see the caper. Ha,
  SECOND LORD. This is the old man still.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Yes, truly is he, and condemn'd upon't.

    For living idly here in pomp and ease,
     Edmund, enkindle all the sparks of nature
    Away with that audacious lady! Antigonus,
    This man hath bewitch'd the bosom of my child.
    From south to west on wing soaring aloft,
    Thou art my heir; the rest I wish thee gather;
    There will I stay for thee.
    And call it accident.
                        Exeunt PRINCE, POINS, PETO, and BARDOLPH
                               Exeunt Murtherers, following her.
  CALIBAN. O ho, O ho! Would't had been done.
  IMOGEN. [Reads] 'He is one of the noblest note, to whose
    shepherd; but I seek my master, and my master seeks not me;
    I cannot read; the character I'll take with wax.
  CASCA. Speak, hands, for me!
     Into this scattered kingdom, who already,
    Devoutly to be wish'd. To die- to sleep.
    As seld I have the chance, I would desire

  ALL. No, no; no man saw 'em.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    said I well?-and thy name shall be Brook. It is a merry
  Alb. Well, well; th' event.                            Exeunt.
  BERTRAM. It might, but it is not now.
    That we are awake? It seems to me
  ANTONIO. Sebastian are you?
  REIGNIER. Why ring not out the bells aloud throughout the
    The complot of this timeless tragedy;
  LUCIUS. When Julius Caesar- whose remembrance yet
    Where shall we dine? O me! What fray was here?
  ALL. Most true, the will! Let's stay and hear the will.
    Either past or not arriv'd to pith and puissance;
    And so he thinks, and is no less apparent
  RATCLIFF. My lord?
BOLINGBROKE'S camp at Bristol
    And find th' inheritance of this poor child,
  SEBASTIAN. No matter, since
  EVANS. Come hither, William; hold up your head; come.
                        Enter HARCOURT
    That drive thee from the sportive court, where thou
                               SCENE 7.
    as if she would pin her to her heart, that she might no more be
    Have eyes to wonder, but lack tongues to praise.
    Like one i' th' stocks. Thou hast never in thy life
  WARWICK. The more that Henry was unfortunate.
  PAROLLES. And truly, as I hope to live.
    and all things neat?
    That in a Christian climate souls refin'd
    He's banish'd, and it shall be so.
  ANTONY. Quarrel no more, but be prepar'd to know
    approve my youth further, I will not. The truth is, I am only old
    Now, Catesby, what says your lord to my request?
           [The CONSPIRATORS draw and kill CORIOLANUS,who falls.
         Tu-whit, To-who'- A merry note,
  PRINCE JOHN OF LANCASTER
    see the wrestling?
    as another man, if I see occasion in a good quarrel, and the law
  AARON, a Moor, beloved by Tamora
  AARON. Touch not the boy, he is of royal blood.
    And they have troops of soldiers at their beck?
    Absent thee from felicity awhile,
    In thee thy mother dies, our household's name,
  AJAX. I'll fight with him alone. Stand, Diomed.
    O'er him whom heaven created for thy ruler.  
    Lie in th' interpretation of the time;
    Your leave and favour to return to France;
  CAESAR. For Antony,
    Your queen and I are devils. Yet, go on;
  COUNTESS. And to be a soldier?
    I'll steal to Glendower and Lord Mortimer,
London. The palace
    Of many weary miles you have o'ergone
    My letters say a hundred and seven galleys.
  IMOGEN. What ho, Pisanio!
  SALISBURY. Trust not those cunning waters of his eyes,

    Henry the Fifth. Whiles they each other cross,
London. A street
    To call together all his state of war;
    Have I been ever free, and must my house
  MOWBRAY. A heavy sentence, my most sovereign liege,
  DUMAIN. Fair lady-

  Kent. The wonder is, he hath endur'd so long.
    The bristled lips before him; he bestrid
  HUBERT. Unkind remembrance! thou and eyeless night
    him for it; and the young lion repents- marry, not in ashes and
  DIANA. They say the French count has done most honourable service.
    To tender it herself. I undertook it,
    Damsel, I'll have a bout with you again,
  EXTON. Didst thou not mark the King, what words he spake?
    And now in plainness do confess to thee,
    Our strength is all gone into heaviness;
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  PROTEUS. To leave my Julia, shall I be forsworn;
     Make servants of their betters.
    Incenses them to send destruction.
  MRS. FORD.  [Aside to MRS. PAGE]  Trust me, I thought on
    And fearful meeting of their opposite.
    Will you be ready? Do you like this haste?
    Thou hast no hands to wipe away thy tears,
     Be it lawful I take up what's cast away.
  Ham. Indeed, indeed, sirs. But this troubles me.
    Celestial as thou art, O, pardon love this wrong,
    Yet are the King's, and, till my soul forsake,
    But leave it all to God. Whither away?
     the foul fiend! Five fiends have been in poor Tom at once: of
    And thou that art his mate make boot of this;
    My brother Troilus lodges there to-night.
    This handkercher was stain'd.
    That as Ulysses and stout Diomede
  Hast thou delight to see a wretched man
    ah, ha, he!
     From those that she calls servants, or from mine?
  ENOBARBUS. Ay, sir; we did sleep day out of countenance and made
    With twenty watchful, weary, tedious nights;
    And with another knot, five-finger-tied,
    The Volscians are dislodg'd, and Marcius gone.
    so, come death! Two o'clock is your hour?
    Of which if you should here disfurnish me,  
ACT I. SCENE I.

  Par. Give me thy torch, boy. Hence, and stand aloof.
    Poison or fire, or suffocating streams,
    By thinking on fantastic summer's heat?
 ELY. The strawberry grows underneath the nettle,
    To die upon the hand I love so well.             Exit HELENA
    An empty casket, where the jewel of life
    Is breach of all. I am ill, but your being by me
    In Normandy, saw I this Longaville.
SCENE IV.
    With smiling plenty, and fair prosperous days!
                     CLEOPATRA'S palace
  AJAX. Thersites!
    And merely to revenge him on the Emperor
    map of my microcosm, follows it that I am known well enough too?
  LUCENTIO. That will I.
    We sent our schoolmaster; is 'a come back?
    Why, if two gods should play some heavenly match,
    Lead us from hence where we may leisurely
  BRUTUS. He thinks he still is at his instrument.
    But notwithstanding with my personal eye
    His sovereign's life to death and treachery!
     Arm it in rags, a pygmy's straw does pierce it.
    measure our weapon. By gar, I will myself have Anne

    And signify this loving interview
    Each man's like mine; you have shown all Hectors.
    ears of the English.
    Then let us take a ceremonious leave
  ANTONY. Come, let's all take hands,
  Ros. We think not so, my lord.
    So, so. Farewell; we are gone.                          Exit
    Into the main of waters. Music! hark!
  BEROWNE. My good knave Costard, exceedingly well met!
    To young Octavius of the state of things.
  And whether that my angel be turned fiend,
    If Lucius live, he will requite your wrongs
    Or, if we did derive it from our friends,
    take it up for pity; yet I'll tarry till my son come; he halloo'd
    Shall still be doubled on her. Truth shall nurse her,
  FALSTAFF. Master Gower, if they become me not, he was a fool that
    Impatiently I burn with thy desire;
    Even so our houses and ourselves and children
               Come our lovely lady nigh.
    And new create this fault?
    An if thou couldst, thou couldst not make him live.

    Do you desire?  [To ANTONIO]  Rest you fair, good signior;
    Which I would free- if I shall be condemn'd

  CLOWN. Why, sir, her name's a word; and to dally with that word  
    Is sum of something which, to term in gross,
    That Clarence is so harsh, so blunt, unnatural,
    Or wring redress from you. Hear me, O, hear me, here!
  BAPTISTA. She shall, Lucentio. Come, gentlemen, let's go.
  RODERIGO. Where shall we meet i' the morning?  

    my pocket?
  COSTARD. God dig-you-den all! Pray you, which is the head lady?
The gates of Corioli
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    More cruel to your good report than grateful
    mistress-  
  ANGELO. What can you vouch against him, Signior Lucio?
                                                     [Trumpet sounds]
                       Enter Polonius.  
    Go, get thee gone, I say.
    tell you for good will. Adieu.                          Exit
          But release me from my bands
    Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,

    If I thrive well, I'll visit thee again.
  CASSIO. What's the matter?
    million; laugh'd at my losses, mock'd at my gains, scorned my
    Which straight she gave me, and her fairy sent
  TRANIO. Well, sir, to do you courtesy,
    And Cydnus swell'd above the banks, or for
  LE BEAU. I will tell you the beginning, and, if it please your  
    And summ'd the account of chance before you said
    And all together, with the Duke of Suffolk,
  CASSIUS. Pardon, Caesar! Caesar, pardon!
    Or needs not us. If Caesar please, our master
  Leon. Well, daughter, and you gentlewomen all,

    But since she did neglect her looking-glass
    Lo where he comes. Come hither to me, Harry.
  PANDULPH. If you had won it, certainly you had.
    for the violent breaking out.
    Which to you shall seem probable, of every
    The opening of his mouth; but suddenly,
  IACHIMO. If I have lost it,
    withal than a cat. You know him not, sir.
    To keep her constancy in plight and youth,
  And for my sake even so doth she abuse me,
    And left thee there, where thou didst vent thy groans
  MOTH. Marry, sir, you must send the ass upon the horse, for he is
                                                 [Drum afar off]
    Of base and bloody insurrection
    Of better deeds to-morrow. Rest you happy!            Exeunt
    Find native graves; upon the which, I trust,
  A FRENCH SERGEANT
  MARIANA. Neither, my lord.
  Fortune had left to both of us alike
  KING.  [Aside]  I may perceive
  Ham. We shall know by this fellow. The players cannot keep counsel;
    Recanting goodness, sorry ere 'tis shown;
  In tender embassy of love to thee,
                      Enter certain NYMPHS
    do it, let the audience look to their eyes; I will move storms; I
    Go anticly, show outward hideousness,
    trade.
    Or any token of thine honour else,
  WIDOW. If you shall please so, pilgrim.
    Was it so precious to me as 'tis now.
  MACDUFF. O, relation
    Grim death, how foul and loathsome is thine image!  
    strong, and of good friends.  
    And he may well in fretting spend his gall
    he'll be made an example.
    as men take diseases, one of another; therefore let men take heed
                    Enter CASSANDRA
    Or if of grief, being altogether had,

                             Enter Fool.
    Your Highness, lately sending into France,
  FALSTAFF. Now, Master Shallow, you'll complain of me to
  LUCENTIO. Tranio, I saw her coral lips to move,
    When we are both accoutred like young men,
    The evil that men do lives after them,
    Successful fortune, steel thy melting heart
  LAUNCE. So-ho, so-ho!
    See, Lucius, see how much she makes of thee.

         Still more fool I shall appear
  SHALLOW. It doth so.
    Shall shine at full upon them. Some attend him.
    Look by and by to have thy sons with thee.

    Our Jovial star reign'd at his birth, and in
  HOST. Disarm them, and let them question; let them keep
    So far'd our father with his enemies;
                                       They fight. Tybalt falls.

    There, my lord.
      'Gainst whom the world cannot hold argument,
    Ensues his piteous and unpitied end.
  JAQUES. An you will not be answer'd with reason, I must die.
    If thou proceed in this thy insolence.
    Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back:
    thither comes the bauble, and, by this hand, she falls me thus  
    To strengthen and support King Edward's place.
      Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd
    But he'll remember, with advantages,
    discretion, or undertakes them with a most Christianlike fear.
    CAPHIS
    in all shapes that man goes up and down in from fourscore to
    My true-love passion. Therefore pardon me,
    Will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms
     Take that of me, my friend, who have the power
    But if my frosty signs and chaps of age,
  KING RICHARD By the apostle Paul, shadows to-night
    Of my lord's health, of his content; yet not
  KING HENRY. Why, Buckingham, is the traitor Cade surpris'd?
    Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
    There's magic in thy majesty, which has
  PETRUCHIO. Why, sir, what's your conceit in that?
    Than to be used as you use your dog?
    And make your peace with Caesar.
    Real necessities, and give way the while
    when he comes home. But what talk I of this? Call forth
    And with my hand I seal my true heart's love.
    If I should say, I saw such islanders,

  WINCHESTER. What! Wherein Talbot overcame? Is't so?
    By holy Mary, Butts, there's knavery!
    You do not love Maria! Longaville

    Argu'd betwixt the Duke of York and him;
  LEONTES.  [To the GUARD]  Shall I be heard?
    The foulness is the punishment. I presume
  DOLL. Yea, joy, our chains and our jewels.
    He has not with him.
  And nothing stands but for his scythe to mow.
    Thou art true and honest; ingeniously I speak,
    That, in a spleen, unfolds both heaven and earth,
    Go down upon him, you have power enough,
    Made suit to come in's presence, which if granted,
  FORD. Stand not amaz'd; here is no remedy.
    Psalmist saith, is certain to all; all shall die. How a good yoke
    In Richard's time, and posted day and night
    If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
  CALIBAN. Do not torment me. O!
    Wherewith already France is overrun.
Enter CRANMER, ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
    The Tribune and his nephews kneel for grace.
  HERMIONE. Never?
    well; another virtuous, yet I am well; but till all graces be in
    But yet be true.
    To their deaf pillows will discharge their secrets.
                                     Exeunt France and Cordelia.
  KATHARINE. You sheep and I pasture- shall that finish the jest?
    Were it a casque compos'd by Vulcan's skill
    For I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
    fellow, and 'a would manage you his piece thus; and 'a would
    Never believe me. Both are my kinsmen.
  ARIEL. I'll fetch them, sir.                              Exit  

  CLOTEN. 'Tis all the better;
    They promis'd me eternal happiness,
    marble there changed colour; some swooned, all sorrowed. If all
    By many hands your father was subdu'd;
  FLUELLEN. There is one goat for you.  [Strikes him]  Will you be so
    Prick'd to't by foolish honesty and love,
    Will Fortune never come with both hands full,
  And shalt by fortune once more re-survey
    books but the score and the tally, thou hast caused printing to
  ALL. Cargo, cargo, cargo, villianda par corbo, cargo.
    Shall strike his father's crown into the hazard.
    What you have done hath not offended me.
    From whom we thought it meet to hide our love

  YORK. Even in condition of the worst degree-
    But now will canker sorrow eat my bud
    But treasons capital, confess'd and proved,
    quivers. Scurvy knave! Pray you, sir, a word; and, as I told you,
    Woe's scene, world's shame, grave's due by life usurp'd,
    Cowardly fled, not having struck one stroke;
  POSTHUMUS. This is but a custom in your tongue; you bear a graver  
    Give not this rotten orange to your friend.

  Fort. Let us haste to hear it,  
    What you require of him? For he partly begs
    Here's to thy health.

    justice Shallow. Lord, Lord, how subject we old men are to this
  Kent. Is this the promis'd end?
 Exit
    See where they come: I'll warrant they'll make it good.
    Obedient as the scabbard. What is here?
  THIRD CITIZEN. Stood the state so? No, no, good friends,
    his pen and inkhorn to the jail. We are now to examination these
    How I am gall'd- mightst bespice a cup
    And now have toil'd their unbreathed memories
  Pedro. Good den, brother.
  Beat. Why then, God forgive me!
  AUMERLE. Princes, and noble lords,
    And made our footstool of security.
  Reg. Give me thy sword. A peasant stand up thus?

    The bosom of my conscience, enter'd me,
  IAGO. Lives, sir.
    Who needs must know of her departure and
    They cannot budge till your release. The King,
    My noble lords; for those that tame wild horses
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM

  HORTENSIO. That she's the chosen of Signior Hortensio.
  HELENUS
    Will I my master's tears to you deplore.
  CONSTABLE. Then shall we find to-morrow they have only stomachs to

  Rom. Lady, by yonder blessed moon I swear,
  MOPSA. I have done. Come, you promis'd me a tawdry-lace, and a pair

  PISANIO. I have, my lord, at my lodging, the same suit he wore when  
  KING JOHN. What say these young ones? What say you, my niece?
    It is my will; the which if thou respect,
             And doleful dumps the mind oppress,
  AUTOLYCUS. After I have done what I promised?
    If then the King your father will restore
    That she do give her sorrow so much sway,
    this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
    Prunes the immortal wing, and cloys his beak,
    Upon these slanderers.
    Farewell.                                       Exit Banquo.
    At the port, lord, I'll give her to thy hand,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  DEMETRIUS. Aaron, thou hast hit it.
    His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
  CLAUDIO. The miserable have no other medicine
    And as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds,
  IACHIMO. Your hand- a covenant! We will have these things set down
    [Aside]  It shall be to the Duchess of Alencon,

  Cor. Good my lord,
    They have pitch'd a toil: I am tolling in a pitch- pitch that
    But seeming so, for my peculiar end.
    Buckingham's army is dispers'd and scatter'd;
    lady thy wife. Canst thou deny it? Did not goodwife Keech, the


  QUEEN ELIZABETH. The Lord protect him from that kingly
      Vows are but breath, and breath a vapour is;
  PETER. I.
  MARDIAN. Death of one person can be paid but once,
  Most worthy comfort, now my greatest grief,
    But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?
    if she be less than an honest woman, she is indeed more than I
    And little of this great world can I speak,

  That you your self may privilage your time
    Rather our state's defective for requital
    I guess thy message. Is the Queen deliver'd?
    For, having such a blessing in his lady,

SCENE IV.
    Because my book preferr'd me to the King,
  PAROLLES. Most admirable! I have seen those wars.
    But for my sport and profit. I hate the Moor,
    Upon my soul, they shall. If this may please you,

    I told him of your stealth unto this wood.
    runs a-horseback up a hill perpendicular-
    If she come in, she'll sure speak to my wife.
    trust him not in matter of heavy consequence; I have kept of them

    To build a grief on. Were you not restor'd
  Jul. Yet let me weep for such a feeling loss.
1595
    The sense of reck'ning, if th' opposed numbers
    Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods,
    by, in his nakedness he appears but a man; and though his
  TIMON. A fool of thee. Depart.  
     On every trifle. When he returns from hunting,
  Ham. He will stay till you come.

    You will be shamed forever.
  LAFEU. And shall do so ever, though I took him at's prayers.
    chapels had been churches, and poor men's cottages princes'
    Had been alive this hour,
    And yet enrich'd it too. She gave it me, and said
  LORENZO. Sweet friends, your patience for my long abode!
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. A bold brave gentleman. That should be
    That in love's grief desir'st society;
     Prosper it with thee! Go thou further off;
    From whose obedience I forbid my soul
  NORFOLK. All this was ord'red by the good discretion
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  SECOND DRAWER. I'll see if I can find out Sneak.
  CAPTAIN. A noble duke, in nature as in name.
    Will you draw near?            Exeunt COUNTESS and GENTLEMEN
    I find the people strangely fantasied;
    It were done quickly. If the assassination
    On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys,
    It could not slake mine ire nor ease my heart.
bearing a silver mace; then two GENTLEMEN bearing two great silver pillars;
  STEWARD. May it please you, madam, that he bid Helen come to you.
    brew good ale.
    Look, here it is.
    John Falstaff- a tall gentleman, by heaven, and a most gallant  
    holiday, he smells April and May; he will carry 't, he will
    But may imagine how the bird was dead,
  SLENDER. Mistress Anne Page? She has brown hair, and
    Which might be felt; that we, the poorer born,
  MARIANA. Isabel,

  BOTTOM. What do you see? You see an ass-head of your own, do you?
    four.
    Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly.
  ADAM. But do not so. I have five hundred crowns,
    I am the caitiff that do hold him to't;
  SERVANT. I go, my lord.                                        Exit
    I kneel before thee, and unproperly
  CHARMIAN. Hath he seen majesty? Isis else defend,
    Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! Hum, I have heard
  Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem,

  TITUS. Ah, Lucius, for thy brothers let me plead!
    Mark Antony shall not love Caesar dead
  JAQUENETTA. Man!
  PANDULPH. So mak'st thou faith an enemy to faith;
    And meet me presently at Berkeley.

    The precious treasure of his eyesight lost.
  KATHERINA. Gentlemen, forward to the bridal dinner.
    If one should be a prey, how much the better
    prologue; and let the prologue seem to say we will do no harm
  VALENTINE. And on a love-book pray for my success?
    Your wife is like to reap a proper man.
    They have sent me such a man I would have wish'd for.


    And bring him up to liking.
    Welcome! One mess is like to be your cheer;

    most reverend,
    before it, and of his creatures, not daring the reports of my
    Our army is ready; come, we'll after them.
    At pleasure here we lie near Orleans;
    That e'er I sigh'd for. Pity move my father
    That which I owe is lost; but if you please
    I have been closely shrouded in this bush,
    fashion will you wear the garland of? about your neck, like an
    See then, thou fight'st against thy countrymen,

    twice or thrice in that last article. Rehearse that once more.
    If you be King, why should not I succeed?
  THERSITES. I would have peace and quietness, but the fool will not-
    I found by fortune and did give my husband,
    That's paragon'd o' th' world.
    That is hot ice and wondrous strange snow.
  WIDOW. I have yielded.
    Our news shall go before us to his Majesty,
    Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy
                         SCENE XII.
  That hath abused and dishonoured me

      And, like a neutral to his will and matter,

    hands.

  Edm. Come hither, Captain; hark.
    Your gates against my force. Yet, for I lov'd thee,
    Than I dare blame my weakness. Will you see her,

    Go presently, and take this ring with thee,
    'Tis now dead midnight, and by eight to-morrow
  POPILIUS LENA, "
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. But most of all agreeing with the proclamation.
    And yesterday the bird of night did sit
  ALL. O, brave!
  CAIUS. By gar, me vill kill de priest; for he speak for a jack-
    To stoop in such a case.
    To deck thy body with his ruffling treasure.

    Ten thousand years together, naked, fasting,
    When he might act the woman in the scene,
    For women are as roses, whose fair flow'r
  Edg. [aside] My tears begin to take his part so much
  PHILARIO. Welcome, sir.
    He mock'd us when he begg'd our voices.
    Purchase the sight again of dear Sicilia
                                                and WESTMORELAND
    again. She hath despis'd me rejoicingly, and I'll be merry in my
    The barren, touched in this holy chase,
    On this fair corse, and, as the custom is,
    Bells in your parlors, wildcats in your kitchens,
    Thou shouldst come like a Fury crown'd with snakes,
  SERVANT. I do but partly know, sir; it is music in parts.  
    If not a fedary but only he
     Remember what I have said.
    Shall here inhabit, and this land be call'd
  Beat. It is a man's office, but not yours.
  FALSTAFF. They are fairies; he that speaks to them shall die.
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and ALEXAS
    And better conquest never canst thou make
    Believe not all; or if you must believe,
     Thus Kent, O princes, bids you all adieu;
  MRS. FORD. Go, sirs, take the basket again on your shoulders;
  MACBETH. Fled to England?
    Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
    For murther, though it have no tongue, will speak
    disciplines of the war; the concavities of it is not sufficient.
  SILVIA. O miserable, unhappy that I am!
    How can she be with him? When was she miss'd?
    if thou be'st not an ass, I am a youth of fourteen; I have known
    ever I heard.
    Your Highness knows, comes to no further use
    His heart and hand both open and both free;
    To execute upon him. Sir, this gentleman
                Rates and revenges.
  SELEUCUS. Madam,

    A little herd of England's timorous deer,
    I'll steal away.
    There's not a soldier of us all that, in the thanksgiving before

     To answer from our home. The several messengers
    'Tis needful that the most immodest word
    And our supplies live largely in the hope
  PUCK, or ROBIN GOODFELLOW
    Shall be to me even as the dew to fire;
    The enemy of all your graces lives.
  QUEEN. Tell me, good fellow, cam'st thou here by chance,
    There speak and strike, brave boys, and take your turns;
    But with such general warranty of heaven
            Enter the EMPEROR and AARON the Moor
  DUKE. It is now apparent?
    As if the world should cleave, and that slain men
  PETRUCHIO. YOU peasant swain! you whoreson malt-horse drudge!
    [To PISANIO] We'll slip you for a season; but our jealousy
  CLOWN. It is like a barber's chair, that fits all buttocks-the pin
  TALBOT. O young John Talbot! I did send for thee
    Be yet my nephew. My brother hath a daughter,
    with aqua-vitae or some other hot infusion; then, raw as he is,
  MENENIUS. Nay, but fellow, fellow-
    Men are to mell with, boys are not to kiss;

    A thousand blushing apparitions
    thistle; and, good mounsieur, bring me the honey-bag. Do not fret

    I married them; and their stol'n marriage day
  CASSIO. 'Tis truly so.
  GLOUCESTER. Commend me to Lord William. Tell him,
    Unworthy brother and unworthy sons!

    Silvius, the time was that I hated thee;
    That any one should therefore be suspicious
  OCTAVIUS. I do not cross you, but I will do so.
    hang'd and carved upon these trees?
    His Highness shall speak in, I do beseech  
    What are your pleasures with me, reverend lords?
    Your aprons mountant; you are not oathable,
  FIRST CITIZEN. First, you know Caius Marcius is chief enemy to the

  The perfect ceremony of love's rite,
  ANTONIO. We are merely cheated of our lives by drunkards.
  Both. We will haste us.
    might slip away ere he came. But what make you here?
  The naked and concealed fiend he covered,
    When could they say till now that talk'd of Rome
        and her two SONS, with the MOOR, at one door;
      Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
    To cross the seas to England, and be crown'd
    Menecrates and Menas, famous pirates,
    he is wronged.
  GAUNT. Come, come, my son, I'll bring thee on thy way.
  
  Lear. Why came not the slave back to me when I call'd him?  
    The act of order to a peopled kingdom.
    Thou hast not lov'd;
    hath examples for his falling, I should wonder at Angelo. How
  MACBETH. Thou wast born of woman.
  ENOBARBUS. Most worthy sir, you therein throw away
     Which made me think a man a worm. My son
    pray You Pass with your best violence;
  Corn. Come, sir, what letters had you late from France?  
  RICHARD. Let me be Duke of Clarence, George of Gloucester;
    Which may, if fortune please, both breed thee, pretty,
    No more, sweet Hamlet!
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Consent to pay thee that I never had!
  We were encount'red by a mighty rock,
  BASSANIO. Thou speak'st it well. Go, father, with thy son.  
    That if our Queen and this young Prince agree,  
    Than keep a corner in the thing I love
  Canst thou O cruel, say I love thee not,
    Keep your word, Silvius, that you'll marry her
    well saved me a day's journey.

    Say their great enemy is gone, and they
    You, son John, and my cousin Westmoreland,
    Ever to get a boy.
  PANDARUS. Go to, a bargain made; seal it, seal it; I'll be the  
    Th' imperious seas breed monsters; for the dish,
    And waving our red weapons o'er our heads,
    precisely 'Thus I would teach a dog.' I was sent to deliver him
    should be look'd into) for their own credit sake make all whole.
  Osw. Why then, I care not for thee.
    Fast foe to th' plebeii, your voices might
                 O, man's life's but a span;
    talk themselves mad.
    And my pretext to strike at him admits
    Whereon, as an offender to your father,
                             SONG
  LOVELL. Yes, my lord.
    Ere twice the sun hath made his journal greeting
    revenge.
    I had rather thou shouldst live while nature will
  LADY MACDUFF. Why, I can buy me twenty at any market.
                      Another part of the field
    But for his own; and for the right of that
    Clear them o' th' city. For myself, I'll put  
    Whose bright out-shining beams thy cloudy wrath
    And wake the Emperor and his lovely bride,
  KATHERINA. Well aim'd of such a young one.
    What, with a torch? Muffle me, night, awhile.     [Retires.]
    You'd be so lean that blasts of January
     Our father's love is to the bastard Edmund
  ANTONIO. You know me well, and herein spend but time
  Disdains the tillage of thy husbandry?
    This one hand yet is left to cut your throats,
    Run, run, Orlando; carve on every tree,


          Flourish. Enter Albany, Goneril, Regan, Soldiers.
    And seek to effect it to my uttermost.
    For by his face straight shall you know his heart.
    Now hazarded to thy grace.
    lion.
  PAULINA. Unless another,
  CRESSIDA. But there was a more temperate fire under the pot of her
    Upon these words I came and cheer'd him up;
    With ignominious words, though clerkly couch'd,
             Enter ENOBARBUS and EROS, meeting

    VENTIDIUS, one of Timon's false friends
    Is all of her. Say that thou overheard'st us;
    Wherever the bright sun of heaven shall shine,
  Glou. A poor unfortunate beggar.
    For the whole world.
    As I thought, dead; and have, in vain, said many
    Away with him to death! [To LUCIO] Now, sir, to you.
    emulation; nor the musician's, which is fantastical; nor the
    ways to recover the general again. You are but now cast in his
    How oft the sight of means to do ill deeds
  WARWICK. Why, then, though loath, yet must I be content.

          Gives her fame which never dies.
     Shows like a riotous inn. Epicurism and lust
    You have, by fortune and his Highness' favours,
    them all.
  GOWER. I will speak lower.
  FREDERICK, his brother, and usurper of his dominions
  CLERK OF CHATHAM
  QUEEN. How fares our noble uncle Lancaster?
    Not half so old as that. I'll write against them,
  BEROWNE. Why, villain, thou must know first.
    Had ever scar for. [To the guard] Let his arms alone;
    Under the gods, keep you in awe, which else
    Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth;
    says she there?
  SIR TOBY. And ask no other dowry with her but such another jest.
  LUCIO. I fear you not.
  PAGE. Sir, he doth in some sort confess it.

  PLAYER. I think 'twas Soto that your honour means.
  MACBETH. [Aside.] Glamis, and Thane of Cawdor!
  LORDS. Good morrow, Richmond!
  CLEOPATRA. Remember'st thou any that have died on't?


    And stop the rising of blood-sucking sighs,
    Exampl'd by the first pace that is sick

                                          Exeunt some attendants
    That like a father you will deal with him,
  ENOBARBUS. No.
Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman.

    Scorns to unsay what once it hath deliver'd.
    Nothing emboldens sin so much as mercy.
    good case, and, the truth is, poverty hath distracted her. But
  OTHELLO. Amen, with all my heart!
    And not all love to see you- though so much
    To instruct her fully in those sciences,
    us, I pray.
    That give a name to every fixed star
    Was not Gaunt just? and is not Harry true?
    whereof, henceforth carry your letters yourself; and so, sir,
                                                   [Steps aside]
    his attempt. If you think well to carry this as you may, the

    Follows the choking.
    And when that we have dash'd them to the ground,

  Prince. I see a good amendment of life in thee- from praying to
                                          [Hangs up the scroll.]
    Some say the lark makes sweet division;
    Very necessity of this thought, that I,
    And military title capital
    For we are old, and on our quick'st decrees
    Plots have I laid, inductions dangerous,

    Dares look upon the heaven of her brow
    You and your ways; whose wraths to guard you from-
    I dare speak it to myself, for it is not vain-glory for a man and
    Ay, with celerity, find Hector's purpose

    I am belov'd of beauteous Hermia.
    The Queen being absent, 'tis a needful fitness
    Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
  ARVIRAGUS. Poor sick Fidele!
  Pedro. And when please you to say so?
  CRESSIDA. Who's that?
    Upon her great disaster.
    Who sent you hither? Wherefore do you come?
    Some to kill cankers in the musk-rose buds;
    For competence of life I will allow you,
    And to that vineyard is a planched gate
  When rocks impregnable are not so stout,
  CAESAR. Most meet
    And do not seek to take your charge upon you,
  Mar. And liegemen to the Dane.
    The force of this commission. Pray, look tot;
    Use no entreaty, for it is in vain.
    And fly like chidden Mercury from Jove,
    From out the circle of his territories.
    I must be ripp'd. To pieces with me! O,

    are squires of the night's body be called thieves of the day's
    Before not dreamt of.
    And thy fair virtue's force perforce doth move me,  
    While that the armed hand doth fight abroad,
    Imparts this; which, if you- or stupified
    Best fitteth my degree or your condition.
    The false revolting Normans thorough thee
  SON. Think you my uncle did dissemble, grandam?
    Signior Hortensio, thus it stands with me:
NORTHUMBERLAND, with drum and trumpets

  ACHILLES. Good day, good day.
    My mother, and my nurse, that bears me yet!

    How proud, how peremptory, and unlike himself?
  DOCTOR CAIUS, a French physician
  Glou. Good friend, I prithee take him in thy arms.
                 And thou art but of low degree.
    And beauty, that the tyrant oft reclaims,
    If that the youth of my new int'rest here
    Come, vial.
    Do meet, as at a fair, in her fair cheek,
  LAFEU. You beg a single penny more; come, you shall ha't; save your
    Become a churchman better than ambition;
    With him my son, Lord John of Lancaster;
    That you have such a February face,
    I saw the treasons planted.
    To shallow rivers, to whose falls
  Nurse. Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a courteous,
ADRIANA. Say, didst thou speak with him? Know'st thou his mind?
    Therefore, at last, I firmly am resolv'd
    The armipotent Mars, of lances the almighty,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    To keep that oath were more impiety
    To visit her poor castle where she lies,
    O, let it not be said! Forage, and run
    Cut short all intermission; front to front
  SECOND CITIZEN. Marry, we were sent for to the justices.
  Fool.      Her boat hath a leak,
  ANTONY. How, my love?
    Following the mirror of all Christian kings
    Lay couching, head on ground, with catlike watch,

    And when the fit was on him I did mark
  AGUECHEEK. Most certain. Let our catch be 'Thou knave.'
  BRUTUS. Speak no more of her. Give me a bowl of wine.
    When he is earth'd, hath here almost persuaded-
    From foreign princes.
    What if I stray'd no farther, but chose here?
                       the BISHOP OF ELY
    were lustier than he is, and twenty such jacks; and if I cannot,
    shirt.
    And gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
    Thanks, Provost, for thy care and secrecy;

    Plies Desdemona to repair his fortune,
    hath ta'en thy life by some indirect means or other; for, I
    Killing their fruit with frowns? Can sodden water,
    That silverly doth progress on thy cheeks.
     And found him pight to do it, with curst speech  
    Is hard at study; pray, now, rest yourself;
    Were then my fellows; now they are my men.
                   Enter TROILUS' BOY
      Thou shin'st in every tear that I do weep;

  SHEPHERD. Sir, there lies such secrets in this fardel and box which

  PISTOL. The plain-song is most just; for humours do abound:
  Clown. Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully
  PANDARUS. What, blushing still? Have you not done talking yet?
     Edmund?

    Had I expected thee.
    [Aside]  How fiery and forward our pedant is!
  FIRST CITIZEN. The gods be good to us! Come, masters, let's home. I
    Preserving life in med'cine potable;
    Now, Falstaff, where have you been all this while?
    This and my food are equals; there's no odds.'
  ANTONIO. I have heard
                  So merrily,
    For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
  KING HENRY THE SIXTH
    In me it seems it will make wise men mad.
    I would invent as bitter searching terms,
    Run hence, proclaim, cry it about the streets.  

    between red wine and Rhenish. But tell us, do you hear whether

    And bear the palm for having bravely shed
    I wrote the letter that thy father found,
    He's with the King your father.
    Go speedily, and bring again the Count.
     So, so, so. We'll go to supper i' th' morning. So, so, so.
  LADY MACBETH. The Thane of Fife had a wife; where is she now? What,
  PETER. Come, I have found you out a stand most fit,
  Among my wife and her confederates,
    We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
    Wanting a hand to give it that accord?
  PROSPERO. I pray thee, mark me.
  ANTIGONUS. I am none, by this good light.
             Is more than one,
    In cases of defence 'tis best to weigh
    The Earl of Warwick and the Duke enforc'd me.
  Beat. Yea, just so much as you may take upon a knives point, and
                                                     [Stabs him]
    The third he caper'd, and cried 'All goes well.'
    You have a son, Aumerle, my noble cousin;
  Oph. Pray let's have no words of this; but when they ask, you what
    It seems her affections have their full bent. Love me? Why, it
    Me and my service, ever whilst I live,
    Go call my men, and let us straight to him;
    My matter is so rash. There is at hand
    And see the noble ruin'd man you speak of.  
  Fool. No, faith; lords and great men will not let me. If I had a
    I'm worse than mad; I have kept back their foes,
  CLOWN. I am a woodland fellow, sir, that always loved a great fire;  
    'Tis not the King that sends you to the Tower;
  KATHARINE. You weigh me not? O, that's you care not for me.
    a remuneration?
    But not for joy, not joy. This entertainment  
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, OLIVER, and LORDS
  KATHARINE. But, in this changing, what is your intent?
    That tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here
    Am starv'd for meat, giddy for lack of sleep;
  GENTLEMAN. Ay; the most peerless piece of earth, I think,
    Which forced marriage would have brought upon her.
    Look, here comes one; a gentlewoman of mine,
    On such a full sea are we now afloat,  
  ENOBARBUS. Spake you of Caesar? How! the nonpareil!
    And more than may be gathered by thy shape.
    Lovers in peace, lead on our days to age!
    all the riches I got in his service.  
    Of which I do accuse myself so sorely
    But by particular consent proceeded
  ANTONY. Where lies he?
    And so did I. Well, we were born to die.
    This we prescribe, though no physician;

            'Tis I must make conclusion
    Which we, God knows, have turn'd another way,
  GRUMIO. Knock at the gate? O heavens! Spake you not these words
    My brain, more busy than the labouring spider,
    And brought with armed men back to Messina.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. What's your will, sir? What's your will?
    Your royal ear abus'd. First, hath this woman
    Whereto, when they shall know what men are rich,
    If you'll bestow a small- of what you have little-
    Whiles that Lavinia 'tween her stumps doth hold
    Should be past grief. Do not receive affliction
    gallant child; one that indeed physics the subject, makes old
    So get you hence in peace; and tell the Dauphin
    From him that fled some strange indignity,

  KING RICHARD. Unless for that he comes to be your liege,  
    For I have need of many orisons
     Judicious punishment! 'Twas this flesh begot
    O, much I fear some ill unthrifty thing.
    keep your cabins; you do assist the storm.
    Six years we banish him, and he shall go.
    As doth the lion in the Capitol,

  Sir M. My good lord,
    To come near. [Exit GENTLEMAN] What can be their business
    How I would make him fawn, and beg, and seek,

    Ingrate forgetfulness shall poison rather
    Deliver it to Madam Silvia-
     With mutual cunning) 'twixt Albany and Cornwall;
  AGAMEMNON. What's your affair, I pray you?
  CAESAR. I' th' common show-place, where they exercise.
    Gloucestershire.
    Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand.
     what should follow these eclipses.
    Some fair excuse.
    Thy praises in his kingdom's great defense,
    well:
    therefore discase thee instantly- thou must think there's a
   To steal his sweet and honey'd sentences;
    The French and English, there miscarried
    Is yond despis'd and ruinous man my lord?
    it an eunuch; and more than that, he can speak French, and
    jealous wittolly knave hath masses of money; for the which
    Whose liquor hath this virtuous property,
    I shall both find your lordship judge and juror,

    I'll make division of my present with you;
    If anything that's civil, speak; if savage,
  YORK. Bring me my boots. I will unto the King.

                                                  Exeunt EXECUTIONERS
  THERSITES. 'Tis no matter; I shall speak as much as thou
    The mind that I do! What a sleep were this
    come again when you may.
  ALENCON. By thrusting out a torch from yonder tower;
  SCARUS. We'll beat'em into bench-holes. I have yet
    And by that order of proscription.
    My father came untimely to his death?
    Murd'ring impossibility, to make
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Yond island carrions, desperate of their bones,
    And he hath brought us smooth and welcome news.
    I love thee brotherly, but envy much
    As rootedly as I. Burn but his books.
  ROSALIND. I will weary you, then, no longer with idle talking. Know
ACT I. SCENE I.
    Were they all made such men. How now, Pisanio!

  Kent. How fares your Grace?
  Pol. That hath made him mad.
  Claud. She did indeed.
  PROTEUS. Sirrah, I say, forbear. Friend Valentine, a word.
  CRESSIDA. Blind fear, that seeing reason leads, finds safer footing
    My genius is rebuked, as it is said
    I did. I  will not dispraise your sister Cassandra's wit; but-
  APEMANTUS. So would I- as good a trick as ever hangman serv'd
  BEROWNE. Fit in his place and time.
    not have knaves thrive long under her? There's a cardecue for
     Thou know'st, the first time that we smell the air
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    not; yet I wrong him to call him poor; they say the  

  Glou. Kent banish'd thus? and France in choler parted?
  AARON. No more, great Empress: Bassianus comes.
    For Brutus, as you know, was Caesar's angel.
    You told not how Henry the Sixth hath lost  
  In winged speed no motion shall I know,
  MENENIUS. I will make my very house reel to-night. A letter for me?
  Pol. [aside] Still on my daughter.
    'Two boys, an old man (twice a boy), a lane,
  SERVANT. Who shall I command, sir?
    Within the guilty closure of thy walls
  SURVEYOR. First, it was usual with him-every day
    I am your wife, if you will marry me;
  CLARENCE. Belike the elder; Clarence will have the younger.


    Wears yet a precious jewel in his head;
  GOBBO. Pray you, sir, stand up; I am sure you are not Launcelot my
                                     [Draws aside the curtains.]
  DUCHESS. Alack, poor Richard! where rode he the whilst?
    And I will look on both indifferently.
    And we are for the dark.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    That, being dead, like to the bullet's grazing
  SALISBURY. Now, by the death of Him that died for all,
    Suggestions are to other as to me;
    A heart of wreak in thee, that wilt revenge
    strength; yet was Solomon so seduced, and he had a very good wit.
    And bless us with her former qualities.
  YORK. I am content; provide me soldiers, lords,
  GRUMIO. And therefore 'tis call'd a sensible tale; and this cuff
    The fundamental reasons of this war;
    And I did give't my husband.
  WARWICK. Clifford of Cumberland, 'tis Warwick calls;
     Unwhipp'd of justice. Hide thee, thou bloody hand;
  OTHELLO. She turn'd to folly, and she was a whore.
  PLANTAGENET. Thanks, gentle sir.
    Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
    Hang him, let him tell the King! we are prepared. I will set
    And put a barren sceptre in my gripe,
  It is so grounded inward in my heart.  
    Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
                      [Soldiers begin to set up the KING'S tent]
    And every hour more competitors
ROSALINE, MARIA, KATHARINE, BOYET, and two other LORDS
    Tell me whereon the likelihood depends.
    They fight. Douglas kills Blunt. Then enter Hotspur.  
  SECOND MESSENGER. Sir, we have all
    The nature of their crimes, that I may minister
    And give you to the gods.
    The time, the place, the torture. O, enforce it!  
    Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
  That by this separation I may give:
    Grey?
    The crown and comfort of my life, your favour,
            Enter KING EDWARD, GLOUCESTER, and soldiers  
  DIOMEDES. And so, good night.
    That any purblind eye may find it out.
  PARIS. You are too bitter to your country-woman.

  ALL. To th' pot, I warrant him.             [Alarum continues]
    This and much more, much more than twice all this,
    With me, a poor weak woman, fall'n from favour?
  MIRANDA. My husband, then?
    In double knavery- How, how?- Let's see-
The Garter Inn
  Ay, fill it full with wills, and my will one,

  PANDARUS. I have had my labour for my travail, ill thought on of
               He held them sixpence all too dear,
    As there is no firm reason to be rend'red
  BASSIANUS. Romans, friends, followers, favourers of my right,
  Queen. What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murther me?
  COSTARD. I Pompey am, Pompey surnam'd the Big-  
    I will reward you for this venturous deed.
    He is a great observer, and he looks
    For art and exercise in your defence,
    seated in the mean: superfluity come sooner by white hairs, but

  Mer. Nay, I'll conjure too.

  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Were my lord so, his ignorance were wise,
  HELENA. Ay, madam.
    Do I take part; the rarer action is
  BASTARD. Now, by this light, were I to get again,  
    That find such cruel battle here within?
  PATROCLUS. Who most humbly desires you to invite Hector to his  
    The contrary doth make thee wond'red at.
    Figuring the natures of the times deceas'd;
  BRUTUS. Let me tell you, Cassius, you yourself
  HUBERT. My lord, they say five moons were seen to-night;
    I am sure he had more hair of his tail than I have of my face
  SNOUT, a tinker
    I heard a bustling rumor like a fray,
    And on them shalt thou ease thy angry heart.
      Albany and Cornwall; next, Goneril, Regan, Cordelia, with
    the moon; I, the Man i' th' Moon; this thorn-bush, my thorn-bush;
  That you beat me at the mart I have your hand to show;
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Even then will rush to knowledge. Go; fresh horses.
  KING EDWARD. But now you partly may perceive my mind.
    But since you teach me how to flatter you,
             Ever shall in safety rest.
  KING RICHARD. The time to come.
  Lear. I will forget my nature. So kind a father!- Be my horses
    because the unconquered soul of Cade is fled.
  SECOND OFFICER. Come, sir, I pray you go.
    him, where he is to behold him with flies blown to death. But
    Lies richer in your thoughts than on his tomb;
  SPEED. Ay, sir; I, a lost mutton, gave your letter to her, a lac'd
    Up to the ears in blood. I am on fire
    yourself.
    Leave off to wonder why I drew you hither
  CAESAR. Are we all ready? What is now amiss
    confirmities. What the good-year! one must bear, and that must be
                        Exeunt GOTHS with AARON. Flourish within
    Some heavy business hath my lord in hand,
    In the large composition of this man?
  SECOND LORD. I pray you, upon what?
    Egeus, I will overbear your will;
    Do give a life- no shepherdess, but Flora
    Which his triumphant father's hand had won.

    That which he is new o'er; and he is one
    Than thou of them. Come all to ruin. Let
  Reg. Sir, I am made
  THIRD CITIZEN. Away, then! Come, seek the conspirators.
    I make as little doubt as you do conscience

    But fettle your fine joints 'gainst Thursday next
    If that be all the difference in his love,
    And take your good grace from me? Heaven witness,
             Thou thy worldly task hast done,
    With ladies' faces and fierce dragons' spleens-
    Behold the wounds, the most unnatural wounds,
    No love toward others in that bosom sits
     This prophecy Merlin shall make, for I live before his time.
  GAUNT. O, to what purpose dost thou hoard thy words,
     I will be jovial. Come, come, I am a king;
  CYMBELINE. Wherefore ey'st him so?
    art full of error; I am sound.
    live long.
    We shall remain in friendship, our conditions
  Time is their master, and when they see time,
  GLOUCESTER. O, my fair cousin, I must not say so.
    As well the fear of harm as harm apparent,
    To five and twenty thousand men of choice;
    For debt that bankrupt sleep doth sorrow owe;
  EXETER. Only he hath not yet subscribed this:
  SHALLOW. That he will not. 'Tis your fault; 'tis your fault;
    And were brought moping hither.
    That all my bowels crumble up to dust.
  CLARENCE. Alas! for whose sake did I that ill deed?
                                  Exeunt CORIOLANUS and Aufidius

    When he did stand for consul, which he lost
  SHALLOW. Knight, you have beaten my men, kill'd my deer,
    To prattle for himself.
    out with me, and I mean not to sweat extraordinarily. If it be a
  May make seem bare, in wanting words to show it;
    Are these the breed of wits so wondered at?
                 Re-enter GAOLER, with EMILIA
    And thou and I sit round about some fountain,
    I will become as liberal as you;

    Come, go with me. [To Servant, giving him a paper] Go, sirrah,
  Cap. What should it be, that they so shriek abroad?
  MACBETH. Thou canst not say I did it; never shake
    And shall become you well, to entreat your captain
  KING RICHARD. Wrath-kindled gentlemen, be rul'd by me;
    It beggar'd all description. She did lie
    Vouchsafe me yet your picture for my love,
    Shall chide your trespass and return your mock
  ENOBARBUS. I am alone the villain of the earth,
  PARIS. Fair Diomed, you do as chapmen do,
  PROTEUS. The sheep for fodder follow the shepherd; the shepherd for
    Beseeming such a wife as your fair daughter.

                    No man must know.'
    See me no more whether he be dead or no.                Exit
  ALONSO. I will stand to, and feed,
  PAGE. It is a kind of history.
  SHEPHERD. Why, boy, how is it?
    Took stand for idle speculation-  
London. A street
  ARCHBISHOP. And so no doubt he is, my gracious madam.
  SECOND ROMAN. And I this.
  PISTOL. Base is the slave that pays.
  Ham. A murtherer and a villain!
    Who holds his state at door, 'mongst pursuivants,

    and such odd sayings, the Sisters Three and such branches of  
    In the remembrance of a weeping queen.                Exeunt
    Unto our climature and countrymen.
    And all we mourn for.  

    As bright as is the eagle's, lightens forth
                          Exeunt FERDINAND and MIRANDA severally
    And not against his friends. His noble hand
    All unity on earth.
  Jul. Good even to my ghostly confessor.
                So be sure will Rosalinde.
    And tears will quickly melt thy life away.
    To tyrannous hate! Swell, bosom, with thy fraught,
    Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Th' inaudible and noiseless foot of Time
    together; why the devil should we keep knives to cut one
    Nor feels not what he owes, but by reflection;

    Give me that hand of yours to kiss.
  CELIA. You have simply misus'd our sex in your love-prate. We must
    His powerful sound within an organ weak;
    Provok'd by him, you cannot- the great danger
  LUCIUS. Say on; an if it please me which thou speak'st,
    now, wit! Whither wander you?
  CORIOLANUS. I will go wash;
Enter AJAX, armed; AGAMEMNON, ACHILLES, PATROCLUS, MENELAUS, ULYSSES,
  PORTIA. A quarrel, ho, already! What's the matter?

  Have at you with a proverb: Shall I set in my staff?
  Nurse. Lord, how my head aches! What a head have I!
    thou damn'd tripe-visag'd rascal, an the child I now go with do
    Now for the rebels which stand out in Ireland,
    Lest Rome herself be bane unto herself,
                  Enter MARCUS
    than an eight-year-old horse. The tartness of his face sours ripe
                        Enter ARMADO
    As this pomp shows to a little oil and root.
  LORD. Heaven cease this idle humour in your honour!
    The blood I drop is rather physical

    So far in blood that sin will pluck on sin.
  VIOLA. This fellow is wise enough to play the fool;
  Mess. And a good soldier too, lady.
    Some squeaking Cleopatra boy my greatness
  SECOND SOLDIER. Belike 'tis but a rumour. Good night to you.
    Wingham-  
Brutus' tent.
  OTHELLO. Never, Iago. Like to the Pontic Sea,
    Put up thy gold. Go on. Here's gold. Go on.

                           Enter HOST

    O! but I love his lady too too much,
  Man. Then she is well, and nothing can be ill.
    I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
    son. Fortune, she said, was no goddess, that had put such
    LEWIS, the Dauphin
                           Re-enter CLOWN
    They have the gift to know it; and in his brain,
    And who doth lead them but a paltry fellow,
  DUKE. You will think you have made no offence if the Duke avouch
ACT V. PROLOGUE.
    For never two such kingdoms did contend
    I am question'd by my fears of what may chance
    Unto the rigour of severest law.

    honesty.
    Meet me i' the morning. Thither he
  CELIA. Trow you who hath done this?
    My fleet hath yielded to the foe, and yonder  
  SURREY. This cannot save you.
    Off with his head! Now by Saint Paul I swear
  LEPIDUS. Your serpent of Egypt is bred now of your mud by the
    See, here's 'To Jove' and this 'To Mercury';
    For nought did I in hate, but all in honor.
  Pedro. My love is thine to teach. Teach it but how,
    Sir Robert could do: well-marry, to confess-
    Shall e'er have power upon thee." Then fly, false Thanes,
    And twenty times made pause to sob and weep
Enter Falstaff and Bardolph.
    Oft have you-often have you thanks therefore-
  DORSET. Dispute not with her; she is lunatic.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
Enter CLARENCE and KEEPER
                      Re-enter PAULINA
    Bade me rely on him as on my father,
  Rom. Sin from my lips? O trespass sweetly urg'd!
  JAQUES. I do not like her name.
  SALISBURY. It is apparent foul-play; and 'tis shame

  CLOTEN. Wilt thou serve me? For since patiently and constantly thou
    Now, if you can blush and cry guilty, Cardinal,
     How now? Where's that mongrel?
    Let him receive no sust'nance, fetter him,
    Treason and murder ever kept together,
    He that knows better how to tame a shrew,
    With half that face would he have all my land:
  AGAMEMNON. This Troyan scorns us, or the men of Troy
  KING HENRY. Uncle of Winchester, I pray read on.
    I'll not be made a soft and dull-ey'd fool,
    'Tis sweet at first t' acquire-after this process,
    tame, must you? Come your ways, come your ways; an you draw
    Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
    Rather than rob me of the people's hearts!
    Hostility and civil tumult reigns
    As it doth me- a nobler sir ne'er liv'd
  SECOND WATCH. Come on, then;
    Sicilia.
    Of your dear father's death, is't writ in Your revenge
  NORFOLK. One, certes, that promises no element
  Bring me within the level of your frown,
  MALCOLM. [Aside to Donalbain.] Nor our strong sorrow
                unbar and open the gates
    Was ever book containing such vile matter

  ANDROMACHE. O, be persuaded! Do not count it holy
  MACBETH. are they? Gone? Let this pernicious hour
  SILVIA. All men but Proteus.
    If Warwick knew in what estate he stands,

    Come, let us go; we will include all jars
    And meaner than myself have had like fortune.
    I claim her not, and therefore she is thine.
  ALL. Slain, sir, doubtless.
  LADY GREY. To tell you plain, I had rather lie in prison.
  THIRD SENATOR. No talk of Timon, nothing of him expect.
                                          Exeunt some attendants
  KING RICHARD. Kind Tyrrel, am I happy in thy news?
    This ruffian hath botch'd up, that thou thereby
  MALCOLM. My liege,
    May stand with ours, this day to be conjoin'd
    The youthful Phoebus.
  KING EDWARD. Why, Clarence, to myself.
  LUCIUS. To know my errand, madam.
    drunk wine afore, it will go near to remove his fit. If
  ARMADO. Fetch hither the swain; he must carry me a letter.
  'The pig' quoth I 'is burn'd'; 'My gold!' quoth he.
    Alack, alack, what blood is this which stains  
           But when I came to man's estate,
    Denmark?- What, my young lady and mistress? By'r Lady, your
    To make a hazard of new fortunes here.
  ENOBARBUS. How now, friend Eros!
  YORK. I'll tell thee, Suffolk, why I am unmeet:
    With long continuance in a settled place.
    To no sight but thine and mine, invisible
    Is straight and slender, and as brown in hue
                     122
  COSTARD. Me?
    of Yead Miller, by these gloves.
  HUBERT. Of the part of England.
    And blow it to the source from whence it came;
    You that will be less fearful than discreet;
  AUMERLE. Comfort, my liege, why looks your Grace so pale?
    they may pass for excellent men. Here come two noble beasts in, a

    yourself?
    What is not holy, that we swear not by,
    And I will fill them with prophetic tears.
    Runs far before them. Good my sovereign,
     Than she to scant her duty.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. It is my son, young Harry Percy,
    Who else must be let blood, who else is rank.
    Where there is beauty; truth where semblance; love
    And take the great-grown traitor unawares.

    married, that we may lighten our own hearts and our wives' heels.
  Pol. You know sometimes he walks four hours together
    Till that the Duke give order for his burial;
    And the ass more captain than the lion; the fellow
    Let go the hand of that arch-heretic,
    To spread his colours, boy, in thy behalf;

            Feed yourselves with questioning,  
    What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
    I shall pay dear.
    To greet me with premeditated welcomes;
  FROTH. I have so; because it is an open room, and good for winter.
  BRUTUS. Ride, ride, Messala, ride, and give these bills
    Gentle Lavinia, let me kiss thy lips,
    Anon, good nurse! Sweet Montague, be true.
    Thus to excuse yourself.
    Let her not say 'tis I that keep you here-

  Page. [aside] I am almost afraid to stand alone
    We are too well acquainted with these answers;
    I did not think to be so sad to-night
    Or has given all before, and he begins
    That blind priest, like the eldest son of fortune,
                                                  [They embrace]
    That lies on Dian's lap! thou visible god,
     To noble fortunes. Know thou this, that men
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  HASTINGS. He is.
    warrant you, they could never get an eye-wink of her.
  RODERIGO. O wretched villain!  
    Had borne the business!'
    they are going to meet him.
          Then with Scotland first begin.'
  PORTIA. Art thou contented, Jew? What dost thou say?
  Edm. In honour'd love.
  Some fresher stamp of the time-bettering days.

  CELIA. Marry, I prithee, do, to make sport withal; but love no man
    to-morrow night in Eastcheap. We may do it as secure as sleep. If
    That were most precious to me. Did heaven look on,
    But stop no wrinkle in his pilgrimage;
    Then join you with them, like a rib of steel,  
  Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
    Upon the first encounter drave them.  
    Sir, you and I have lov'd- but there's not it.
     animal as thou art. Off, off, you lendings! Come, unbutton
    Never so much as in a thought unborn
    The power to cancel his captivity.
    To this I witness call the fools of time,
  COUNTESS. Not so, but as we change our courtesies.
    Leontes opening his free arms and weeping
  ROSALIND. Do you pity him? No, he deserves no pity. Wilt thou love
    Or else my kingdom stands on brittle glass.
  APEMANTUS. He wrought better that made the painter; and yet he's

    father.
  PAROLLES. 'Five or six thousand horse' I said-I will say true- 'or
    Thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers

  CLOWN. Truly, sir, and pleasure will be paid one time or another.
    He tires betimes that spurs too fast betimes;
    make her husband a cuckold to make him a monarch? I should

  WARWICK. And mine, fair Lady Bona, joins with yours.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Pray God, I say, I prove a needless coward.
    And make the babbling gossip of the air
  BOLINGBROKE. The shadow of your sorrow hath destroy'd
  DUKE. Ay, with my heart;
    May prove coherent. Every night he comes
    And all indign and base adversities
    Keepers, convey him hence; and I myself
    But what, is Catesby gone?
  TAMORA. Now will I to that old Andronicus,
  FIRST PAGE. Shall we clap into't roundly, without hawking, or
    But one, the wicked'st caitiff on the ground,
    him; he had, sir, a kind of face, methought- I cannot tell how to

    And there my rendezvous is quite cut off.  
    could to die before, and he is one of the patterns of love.
  Sampson, servant to Capulet.
  Urs. Madam, withdraw. The Prince, the Count, Signior Benedick, Don
  YORK. To heave the traitor Somerset from hence,
  FLAVIUS. O my good lord, the world is but a word;  
  Glend. My daughter weeps; she will not part with you;
    But reverence to your calling makes me modest.
  TIMON. All villains that do stand by thee are pure.
  PROVOST. Is it your will Claudio shall die to-morrow?
    Or I my life.
                   ARIEL'S SONG
    Yet are they passing cowardly. But, I beseech you,
  Ben. An if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.
    To thine own lips again.
    Shall be eterniz'd in all age to come.
    Than give thy cause away.
    bondman? If any, speak, for him have I offended. Who is here so
  DUKE. Sir, the Duke is marvellous little beholding to your reports;
    That right in peace which here we urge in war,
  Reg. Let your study
    worse! And let worse follow worse, till the worst of all follow
    Of Charles the Duke of Lorraine, sole heir male  
  And 'Will' to boot, and 'Will' in over-plus,
  LUCETTA. It is too heavy for so light a tune.
    At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,

    is in our prison a common executioner, who in his office lacks a
  LYSANDER. More than to us
     Shall be applied. For us, we will resign,
    a man of mine: the Prince discovered to Claudio that he loved my

  VIOLA. I think not so, my lord.
    Could I come near your beauty with my nails,
    me, he's more and more a cat.
  ORLEANS. Rien puis? L'air et le feu.
    Or then, or then, with such or such; and, as you say,
  WIDOW. Here you shall see a countryman of yours
    Thou wilt not only loose the forfeiture,
    Henceforth my wooing mind shall be express'd
  When I (perhaps) compounded am with clay,
  CLARENCE. With Poins, and other his continual followers.
    Whose edge is sharper than the sword, whose tongue
    That o'er the files and musters of the war
  SECOND LORD. Nay, look not so upon me; we shall hear of your
    If I know how or which way to order these affairs


    Thus purifies itself and turns to grace.
    Till Hymen's torch be lighted; but in vain.
  DEMETRIUS. Then why should he despair that knows to court it
    When we were so indeed.
    little part and undo a great deal of honour! Servilius, now
    Tell her my love, more noble than the world,
    Which here you urge to prove us enemies,
    Pardon me, lords, 'tis the first time that ever
  Fal. You have hit it.
    Write up his title with usurping blood.
    Help, friends below! Let's draw him hither.
    This shame derives itself from unknown loins'?
                                                Exeunt pillagers
    head; what matter have you against me?
  MIRANDA. My affections
    Shall I lay perjury upon my soul?

    In Venice they do let heaven see the pranks
    Steel, if thou turn the edge, or cut not out the burly bon'd
    How now, Sir Proteus! Is your countryman,
                                       Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA
    That made them do it. They are wise and honorable,
    But in mistaking.

  SIR TOBY. A false conclusion! I hate it as an unfill'd can. To be
    My patience to his fury, and am arm'd
    Not of that dye which their investments show,
  GRATIANO. I thank your lordship, you have got me one.
    I'll be a candle-holder and look on;
    Of all be hated, but the most of me!
  FOOL. She's e'en setting on water to scald such chickens as you
  Alb. Now, gods that we adore, whereof comes this?
  GLOUCESTER. Ay, uncle, we will keep it if we can;
  KING. Speak on.
                    Re-enter ENOBARBUS
    But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger
    Most like a noble lord in love and one
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    And tak'st it all for jest.

    And bring them after in the best advantage.
Another part of the field
  SHYLOCK. I am debating of my present store,
  QUEEN MARGARET. O, but impatience waiteth on true sorrow.
  PROVOST. This, my lord.
    Peter, thou hast prevail'd in right!

    I am in this earthly world, where to do harm
    Though yet she speak not. Mark a little while.
    Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
    For Juliet's sake, for her sake, rise and stand!
  ROSALIND. Marry, he trots hard with a young maid between the
  KATHARINE. Fair fall the face it covers!  
  RICHARD. Ay, with five hundred, father, for a need.
    But when they should endure the bloody spur,

    Without a prompter. Where will you that I go
    A most miraculous work in this good King,
  FORD. And how long lay you there?
  ANTONY. Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears!
  Rom. Spakest thou of Juliet? How is it with her?
  How sweet and lovely dost thou make the shame,
    Snail-slow in profit, and he sleeps by day
     reason?
  BRUTUS. Soft, who comes here? A friend of Antony's.
    may say he is wise, for either he avoids them with great
    Will strike amazement to their drowsy spirits.
    Had of your father claim'd this son for his?
    are arrant knaves and will backbite.
    Men prize the thing ungain'd more than it is.
     And you, our no less loving son of Albany,
  ANNE. Name him.
    Strikes life into my speech, and shows much more
    One might interpret.
    The rest will ne'er come in, if he be out.
    is Adrian.
  DUCHESS. Why, York, what is it, my lord?
     Upon this call o' th' trumpet.
  SOMERSET. Yes, when his holy state is touch'd so near.
    How the English, in the suburbs close intrench'd,
SCENE I.
           Will I Rosalinda write,
    With thine entirely.
    For I have gained by't.
    Than to take in a town with gentle words,
    after him.
    That may offend the isle. But here they come.
    God's mercy, maiden! does it curd thy blood
    likeliest men, and I would have you serv'd with the best.

    they'll come in straight.
ACT_4|SC_4
     To hear of pleasure's name.  
    Farewell all physic; and what follows then?
    If that the soldier strike him, as I judge
    thumb, sir.
    master's garments in thy possession?
    Now is my day's work done; I'll take good breath:
    Hector of Troy, worth five of Agamemnon, and ten times better
    But to the matter that we have in hand:
    This hand, which for thy love did kill thy love,
    yourself and him, he shall not exceed you three hits; he hath
  GLOUCESTER. Confirm it so? Confounded be your strife;
    For certain words he spake against your Grace
                       ANTENOR passes
    That like a testy babe will scratch the nurse,

  MOWBRAY. Is this proceeding just and honourable?
    And wounds the earth, if nothing else, with rage
    I am too high-born to be propertied,
                                       Exeunt the three citizens
    For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night
    will not love; if I do, hang me. I' faith, I will not. O, but her
  DUKE. Know ye Don Antonio, your countryman?
    honour, in giving him our own voices with our own tongues;
    Get goal for goal of youth. Behold this man;
    About thy thoughts and counsels of thy heart!
    An outward honour for an inward toil;
    Yet, in protection of their tender ones,
  BARDOLPH. Pardon, sir; I have heard the word. 'Phrase' call you it?
  JAQUES. 'Tis a Greek invocation, to call fools into a circle. I'll
England and Wales
  ANTONY. Let him appear.
    thing of his own search and altogether against my will.
    Good night, Titinius; noble, noble Cassius,
  LADY GREY. What you command that rests in me to do.
    Another thing to fall. I not deny
     His word was still
    And now excess of it will make me surfeit.
  PAGE. And youthful still, in your doublet and hose, this raw
  TITUS. People of Rome, and people's Tribunes here,  
  MAYOR. God bless your Grace with health and happy days!
    May here find truth too. Those that come to see
    And in the temple of great Jupiter
    To make his bleak winds kiss my parched lips
    That she may make, unmake, do what she list,  

    That temple, thy fair mind, that thou mayst stand

    The worms were hallow'd that did breed the silk,
    Nay, weep not, gentle Eros; there is left us
    And yet with charity. He was a man
    Prosperity be thy page!

  ENOBARBUS. Hoo! says 'a. There's my cap.
                       OF ORLEANS and his BOY
  PATROCLUS. Why, thou damnable box of envy, thou, what meanest thou
    Remember I have done thee worthy service,
  BOLINGBROKE. My gracious uncle!-

                Metellus Cimber, and Trebonius.
  Beheaded publicly for his offence.
  VALENTINE. For that which now torments me to rehearse:
  SPEED.  [Aside]  He should give her interest, and she gives it him.

    From the corruption of abusing times
    dishonest desire to desire to be a woman of the world. Here come
  MRS. OVERDONE. But what's his offence?
    That quench the fire of your pernicious rage
  The mountain, or the sea, the day, or night:
  BRUTUS. Cassius, be content,

  Nurse. [within] Let me come in, and you shall know my errand.
    up where it wanted, rather than lack it where there is such
    And there repose; a turn or two I'll walk
    Nor what ensues, but have a fog in them
    Both for myself and them- but, chief of all,
    They are all forth; well, I will walk myself
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. I thank my beauty I am fair that shoot,
  BOLINGBROKE. Then, England's ground, farewell; sweet soil, adieu;
    And I am proof against their enmity.
  SECOND CITIZEN. Ay, sir, it is too true; God help the while!  
  KING JOHN. Why do you bend such solemn brows on me?
    take the court for Paris garden? Ye rude slaves, leave your
    I chanced on this letter.
  POINS. Let's beat him before his whore.

    I would not have thee linger in thy pain.

    Go great with tigers, dragons, wolves, and bears;
Pomfret Castle
                          [Sleeps. IACHIMO comes from the trunk]
    But as a discontented friend, grief-shot
    'Twixt amorous and villainous. Being thus quench'd
  GRATIANO. And it is marvel he out-dwells his hour,
  Excludes all pity from our threat'ning looks.
     With boot, and Such addition as your honours
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  Ham. I beseech you remember.
  POSTHUMUS. This is a thing
    with her, lest her body and beauty unprovide my mind again. This
    How now! what news from her?
        That I am forsworn for thee;
    But if you have a stomach, to't a God's name;
  ALONSO. Lead away.
    yet their life to see him a man.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  WILLIAM. I do, sir.  
    Like very sanctity, she did approach
  SHALLOW. Be merry, Master Bardolph; and, my little soldier there,

                                  [He gives his hand to WARWICK]
  FALSTAFF. I can get no remedy against this consumption of the
    consideration. You have, as it appears to me, practis'd upon the
    this foolish-compounded clay, man, is not able to invent anything
  AGUECHEEK. Od's lifelings, here he is! You broke my head for
    I do forswear them; and I here protest,
    Embrace him, love him, give him welcome hither.

    And they can well on horseback; but this gallant  
  Pedro. He is compos'd and fram'd of treachery,
    Judge me the world, if 'tis not gross in sense

    What was he that did make it? See, my lord,
  CLEOPATRA. Nay, hear them, Antony.
    Can hold the mortise? What shall we hear of this?
  SUFFOLK. I'll turn my part thereof into thy throat.
    For putting on so new a fashion'd robe.
  BRUTUS. Good reasons must of force give place to better.  
    a good time, when I might ha' shown myself honourable! How
    Without all terms of pity. Speak; thine answer.
    seeing her go thorough the streets, to know, sir, whether one
    To others' eyes; nor doth the eye itself-
    Why then, fly on; I'll hunt thee for thy hide.             Exeunt
    Too deep and dead, poor infants, in their graves.
    We are impressed and engag'd to fight-
  PRINCE JOHN. I pawn'd thee none:
    As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
  SIR TOBY. And they have been grand-jurymen since before Noah was a
    And take thy office from thee on my peril.  
    For pale they look with fear, as witnessing
    That errs in ignorance and not in cunning,
    Was of more danger, did compound for her
    Of audience nor desire shall fail, so she
    and fire to burn; that good pasture makes fat sheep; and that a
    As i' th' command of Caesar. I dare him therefore
    Countercheck Quarrelsome; the sixth, the Lie with Circumstance;
    What England says, say briefly, gentle lord;  
    Who threats in course of this revenge to do
  OTHELLO. Give me a living reason she's disloyal.
Alarums to the battle. Enter WARWICK
  GUIDERIUS. Out of your proof you speak. We, poor unfledg'd,
  SILVIA. His worth is warrant for his welcome hither,
  ROSS. No, they were well at peace when I did leave 'em.
    And well she can persuade.
    But now, Baptista, to your younger daughter:
  ROSALIND. Patience once more, whiles our compact is urg'd:
    And, hoodwink'd as thou art, will lead thee on
    If I do not put on a sober habit,
    Look after him, and cannot do him good,
    With that recognizance and pledge of love
  KING EDWARD. To tell thee plain, I aim to lie with thee.  

    the diseases, Doll. We catch of you, Doll, we catch of you; grant
    [To Laertes] Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech.
                         Before Angiers
  POMPEY. Once?- sir. There was nothing done to her once.
    hundred and fifty left alive; and they are for the town's end, to
  CRESSIDA. Ay, come-O Jove! Do come. I shall be plagu'd.
    By false accuse doth level at my life.
    is now; swear the oaths now to her that you have sworn to me.-

  MACBETH. But wherefore could not I pronounce "Amen"?
    His wife who wins me by that means I told you,
    When I spake darkly what I purposed,
    Some spirit put this paper in the packet
  LUCIUS. Thanks, royal sir.
  KING RICHARD. Lo, at their birth good stars were opposite.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    But if your father had been victor there,
    Now! whence come you?
  BARDOLPH. You must away to court, sir, presently;
                     Enter RICHARD PLANTAGENET
  Bene. And how do you?
    You have said you will not grant us any thing-
    As good as we?
  PRINCE. Instruct us, boy; what dream, boy?
    for thy cases, and the numbers of the genders? Thou
    Prince Dauphin, you shall stay with us in Rouen.
                When his love he doth espy,
  BASTARD. And thou shalt find it, Dauphin, do not doubt.
    His faults lie open to the laws; let them,
                That must needs be sport alone;
    He finished indeed his mortal act
  SON. I cannot think it. Hark! what noise is this?
    Shall be no shelter to these outrages;
  And play the mother's part, kiss me, be kind.
                        Enter A MESSENGER
  Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
     That's sorry yet for thee.  
    There is no reason but I shall be blind.
    To keep me from a most unholy match,
                                    [CORIOLANUS draws his sword]
  When I perceive that men as plants increase,
    So will I turn her virtue into pitch,
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. To Adriana! that is where we din'd,
     Your son and daughter found this trespass worth
    That beasts shall tremble at thy din.
  And for the same he promis'd me a chain;
             If you pardon, we will mend.
    But I must needs to th' Tower, my lords?


    Then, when you come to Pluto's region,
  IMOGEN. Why, good fellow,
    That thy rebellion looks so giantlike?
         VENTIDIUS talking with him; LUCILIUS and other
    day of wrong through the little hole of discretion, and I will
    A plot shall show us all a merry day.                 Exeunt
  FIRST LORD. Might we but have that happiness, my lord, that you
    lustrous, a word, good metals: you shall find in the regiment of
    Brave Death by speaking, whether he will or no;
    But 'tis so lately alter'd that the old name
    Their liberties are now in arms, a precedent
    sold for a penny; the three-hoop'd pot shall have ten hoops; and
  SLENDER. Ay, it is no matter.
    Mercury, was likewise a snapper-up of unconsidered trifles. With
    Lies crafty-sick. The posts come tiring on,  
    And of it left his son imperial lord.
                           SCENE IV.
               My purpose should not fail with me,
                                            [Sheathes his sword]
    That gave thee life when well he might have slain thee,


    tailor for wearing his new doublet before Easter, with another
    To pluck this crawling serpent from my breast.
DUKE. Merchant of Syracuse, plead no more;
  Bal. I will be gone, sir, and not trouble you.

  GAUNT. When, Harry, when?
    No villainous bounty yet hath pass'd my heart;
    How to respect you; you are the lord of duty,
  OTHELLO. The voice of Cassio; Iago keeps his word.
    I was advertis'd their great general slept,
    Ere they can hide their levity in honour.
    O'erflows the measure. Those his goodly eyes,
    Forc'd by the tide to combat with the wind;
    So tell your master.
    that have been candle-cases, one buckled, another lac'd; an old
  LEONTES. 'At the Queen's' be't. 'Good' should be pertinent;
  PAGE. We three to hear it and end it between them.

    His soul and body to their lasting rest.
    earth as if his entrails were hairs; le cheval volant, the
    Adding withal, how blest this land would be
    Why stands he so perplex'd?
    hinds, were call'd forth by their mistress to carry me in
    And thou shalt still remain the Duke of York.  
     My unprovided body, lanch'd mine arm;
    To our pavilion shall I lead you, first.
EPILOGUE
    letters from the general, wherein he gives my son the whole name
  CHIEF JUSTICE. O God, I fear all will be overturn'd.
    see 'em; now the ship boring the moon with her mainmast, and anon
    And like a peacock sweep along his tail;
    And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
    Rescue thy mistress, if thou be a man.
    And melt, ere they molest! Here lies your brother,
    Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on her.

    has my husband, man by man, boy by boy, servant by servant. The
  Kinsman to grim and comfortless despair,
    If imputation and strong circumstances,

    strangely, for he hath not us'd it before.
    But as a property. And now, Octavius,
    To Mantua, where I hear he makes abode;
    I have been feasting with mine enemy,
    Was my belov'd in Rome; yet thou behold'st.
  SHALLOW. O, Sir John, do you remember since we lay all night in the

    Or I am much deceiv'd, cuckolds ere now;
    Or be inferior to the proudest peer.
  KING RICHARD. I am in health, I breathe, and see thee ill.
    When that rash humor which my mother gave me
  For compound sweet; forgoing simple savour,
 Exit
   The air, a charter'd libertine, is still,
    We'll not commend what we intend to sell.

    pride. O that you could turn your eyes toward the napes of your
    To wash the eyes of kings.  
    Than if you had at leisure known of this.
    Is not my friend. This, to confirm my welcome-
    Turn'd her obedience, which is due to me,
    no want of resolution in me, but only my followers' base and
    he knew me not at first. He said I was a fishmonger. He is far
    quick, that I may lay my head in thy lap.
    Hear'st thou the news abroad, who are arriv'd?
                       Enter a troop of citizens
  Reg. We shall further think on't.
                 [Alarum. They fight and PETER strikes him down]
    Did put the yoke upon's; which to shake of
     in pieces the heart of his obedience. I dare pawn down my life
    Or ere your pulse twice beat.                           Exit
    Where I have come, great clerks have purposed
    Or brew it to a weak and colder palate,
  CORIOLANUS. What do you prate of service?
    Thus far can I praise him: he is of a noble strain, of approved
    him black and blue- shall we not, Sir Andrew?
  Book both my wilfulness and errors down,
                      Re-enter PORTER With keys
    He made you for a highway to my bed;
  JULIA. But say, Lucetta, now we are alone,
    Their services to Lord Timon. His large fortune,
    away with him; better shame than murder.
    And from her bosom took the enemy's point,
    Live, and be prosperous; and farewell, good fellow.
    For stony limits cannot hold love out,
    It is as sure as you are Roderigo,
  Hero. O, that exceeds, they say.


  ROSALIND. They say you are a melancholy fellow.
    That with this little arm and this good sword
    more shall be paid her than she'll demand.
  BASSANIO. Sweet doctor, you shall be my bedfellow;
  KING HENRY. Marry, if you would put me to verses or to dance for
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. That I can tell you too. The Archbishop
     lord speak. Pray ye, go! There's my key. If you do stir abroad,
  DAUGHTER. Why do you weep so oft, and beat your breast,
    Whilst your great goodness, out of holy pity,
    of his success in't, and to what metal this counterfeit lump of

    The unowed interest of proud-swelling state.
  Kent. Do!
    Which by th' interpretation of full time
  KING RICHARD. What do you think?
    Which art possess'd now to depose thyself.
  Pedro. Nay, do not quarrel with us, good old man.
    Yea, mock the lion when 'a roars for prey,
    This day shall be a love-day, Tamora.
    To execute the noble Duke at Calais.
    Wherein your cunning can assist me much.
  SOMERSET. My lord,
  FALSTAFF. Give me my rapier, boy.
    How these were they that made away his brother.         Exit
    Pronounce dishonour of her-by my life,
  KING HENRY. Welcome, brave captain and victorious lord!
    I found the effect of love in idleness;
  CASSIUS. My heart is thirsty for that noble pledge.
    Hath not essentially, but by circumstance,
    Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
    To have free speech with you; and it concerns me
    'Tis true. My name is Nym, and Falstaff loves your wife.
                   As bird doth sing on bough.
    Suddenly taken; and hath sent poste-haste

    And I the matter will reword; which madness
  MIRANDA. You look wearily.
  PETRUCHIO. What?
  Hot. Hath Butler brought those horses from the sheriff?
                      Enter TROILUS

    Against my honour?
    Besides, he says there are two councils kept,

  AARON. Why, then, it seems some certain snatch or so
    If I should swear by Jove's great attributes
    horse.
    Besides, the King's name is a tower of strength,  
  Ham. These tedious old fools!
    Flies where you bid it, I find that she which late
  WIDOW. I hope so. Look, here comes a pilgrim. I know she will lie
    For they have fought for Rome, and all in vain;
  Reg. So white, and such a traitor!
    But one ten thousand of those men in England
  MOTH. You are too swift, sir, to say so:
    In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great
SCENE IV.
    That there's no maculation in thy heart;
    The trees, though summer, yet forlorn and lean,
  SECOND MURDERER. Spoke like a tall man that respects thy
    You live in this, and dwell in lovers' eyes.
  CYMBELINE. Past grace? obedience?
    My father as he slept, I had done't.
  ISABEL, Queen of France  
    Hortensio, have you told him all her faults?
    Forget to pity him, lest thy pity prove
    How now! What's the matter?
    His liberty is full of threats to all-
    and like enough to consent. What would you say to me now, an I
                                   [They put MUTIUS in the tomb]
  POSTHUMUS. A repulse; though your attempt, as you call it, deserve
    That dogs bark at me as I halt by them-
    modesty, and gave such orderly and well-behaved reproof  
    And so I pray you all to think yourselves.
    Who had not now been drooping here if seconds
    Moreover, urge his hateful luxury
    Which was to my belief witness'd the rather,
    But poverty could never draw 'em from me-

    I here bestow a simple instrument,
    on't.
    You know I am a woman, lacking wit
    He hath not told us of the captain yet.
    orange-tawny beard, your purple-in-grain beard, or your
    Why all these things change from their ordinance,

  MESSENGER. Spies of the Volsces
  POSTHUMUS LEONATUS, a gentleman, husband to Imogen

    Where I may have fruition of her love.
    There is no more to say?
    Be bright and jovial among your guests tonight.
    Nor can my tongue unload my heart's great burden,
    the pioneers given o'er?
     Most just and heavy causes make oppose.
    risen. Why stay we prating here? To th' Capitol!
    In glory of my kinsman Hercules.
  KING. Is not his brother, Thomas of Clarence, with him?
  BRUTUS. Merely awry. When he did love his country,
  ANNE. To take is not to give.               [Puts on the ring]
    Be cross'd with slowness! Labour be his meed!           Exit
SCENE 5.
  Hor. Not a jot more, my lord.
  PORTER. Belong to th' gallows, and be hang'd, ye rogue! Is

    Why wither not the leaves that want their sap?
    She may help you to many fair preferments
    But by bad courses may be understood
    Ere a determinate resolution, he-
    When holy and devout religious men
    her; she'll fit it.  
    Then, taking him from thence that is not there,
    To wish me wed to one half lunatic,
     Thee they may hurt.
  IAGO. Gentlemen all, I do suspect this trash
                 I'll be with you again,
  DUKE. Husband?
    Our coronation done, we will accite,
    Most like a careful subject, have collected  
    Yet to draw forth your noble ancestry  
  BUCKINGHAM. We know each other's faces; for our hearts,
SCENE 2
    Thus much the business is: we have here writ
  KING JOHN. Withhold thy speed, dreadful occasion!
  KING RICHARD. Madam, so thrive I in my enterprise
  
  I think you are all mated or stark mad.
    cock, with your comb on.
  ADRIAN. 'Widow Dido' said you? You make me study of
    The ordering of the mind too, 'mongst all colours
    The steps of wrong-should move you to mew up
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  Ham. What's the matter now?
  LENNOX. No, my lord.  
    And I would call it fair play.
  THIRD SERVANT. What raiment will your honour wear to-day?
    And that we find the slothful watch but weak,
  IMOGEN. Those things I bid you do, get them dispatch'd.
    That sun that warms you here shall shine on me,
    Whom fair befall in heaven 'mongst happy souls!-
    More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
    The lands and waters 'twixt your throne and his
  SEBASTIAN. Or docks, or mallows.
    work again.
    would marry.
    I live to look upon their tragedy.
    But, an you will not wed, I'll pardon you.
    By custom and the ordinance of times,
    Unless thou wert more loyal than thou art.
    A nobleness in record. But I will be
  DUKE. What, are you married?
  Or else you may return without your money.
    Come, sir, dispatch. If thou couldst, doctor, cast
    her; or, in sooth, I would Master Fenton had her; I will
  MONTAGUE. And, brother, here's the Earl of Wiltshire's blood,
    Ambition should be made of sterner stuff:
    And, now I am rememb'red, scorn'd at me.
     If he distaste it, let him to our sister,
    'Frets, call you these?' quoth she 'I'll fume with them.'
  LADY MACDUFF. Poor bird! Thou'ldst never fear the net nor lime,
    I will enchant the old Andronicus  
  LUCIUS. Then, gracious auditory, be it known to you
  FALSTAFF. A rascally slave! I will toss the rogue in a blanket.
    Whose western side is with a vineyard back'd;
ACT I. SCENE 1.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. O, my old master! who hath bound
    Prizes not quantity of dirty lands;
    And say to all the world, "This was a man!"
  OLD LADY. How tastes it? Is it bitter? Forty pence, no.
    And be in eye of every exercise
    As it were sin to doubt- that love this painting
    Which, but thou hast already, with all my heart
  Fal. Dost thou hear, Hal? Never call a true piece of gold a
  DUKE. You do him wrong, surely.
  KATHARINE. He made her melancholy, sad, and heavy;
     And pray, and sing, and tell old tales, and laugh
    to a thing, and I was never mine own man since. How now! Who's
    That keeps you in the house and not your own.
  TRANIO. Of all mad matches, never was the like.
    For so I will. Mine eyes grow dim. Farewell,
    The other blank as nothing. Weigh him well,
    Th' impression of keen whips I'd wear as rubies,
    kind of burr; I shall stick.                          Exeunt
  Rey. Ay, my lord,
    He has discover'd my design, and I
    In country footing.
    But it was famed with more than with one man?
  CHARMIAN. O that brave Caesar!
  ISABELLA. Sir, believe this:
    A sly and constant knave,
    counterfeiting to him. Will you go?                   Exeunt
    That we may know the traitors and the truth!
  IAGO. Will you think so?
    But let the world rank me in register
    A pretty plot, well chosen to build upon!
    SHALLOW following]  Cavaleiro Justice, I say.
  No evil lost is wail'd when it is gone.
    And, when she drinks, against her lips I bob,
    doing it.
  THURIO. What seem I that I am not?
    Witness these trenches made by grief and care;
  PORTIA. That he hath a neighbourly charity in him, for he borrowed
  POLIXENES. What follows this?
    the other day, he did vow upon his knees he would be even with
                                      [Exeunt Prince and Poins.]
    water.
    How in our voiding-lobby hast thou stood
    Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
    Of King Polixenes, it should here be laid,
    Lucentio's father is arriv'd in Padua,
  GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS. Stand, stand, and fight!
    He is not here.
    My name is call'd Vincentio, my dwelling Pisa,
  SECOND CITIZEN. Go fetch fire.
    swing'd me. If I did not think it had been Anne Page,
    Shall outstrike thought; but thought will do't, I feel.
    Revenge, which makes the foul offender quake.
    My dagger in my mouth. Say what thou art;
    And have the dates in compt.
    Let me be privileg'd by my place and message
  DUKE OF ORLEANS                   DUKE OF BRITAINE
  BOYET. But is this Hector?
           A long flourish. They all cry 'Marcius, Marcius!'
    In life's uncertain voyage, I will some kindness do them-
    rheumatic day!
    The King is now in progress towards Saint Albans,
  Poins. [comes fortward] O, 'tis our setter. I know his voice.
    judge. He thrusts me himself into the company of three or four
    It turns in less than two nights? O you gods,
     My lord is dead; Edmund and I have talk'd,
  CADE. Therefore am I of an honourable house.
    home, therefore leave us.
    made thee butter. But tell me, Jack, whose fellows are these that
    Tells Harry that the King doth offer him
  BERTRAM. Now will I lead you to the house, and show you
    some certain special honours it pleaseth his greatness to impart
    A man of fire-new words, fashion's own knight.
    I'll have the current ill this place damm'd up,
    As that which causeth it. How can I moderate it?
    That any drop thou borrow'dst from thy mother,
    My speculative and officed instruments,
    Away with Slender, and with him at Eton
    To make them kings -the seed of Banquo kings!
    Proclaims him king, and many fly to him.
    Be executed by nine to-morrow morning;
  How many a holy and obsequious tear

    To steel a strong opinion to themselves?
    Even at the heels in golden multitudes.
    It forg'd him some design, which, being believ'd,
    To stand the push and enmity of those
    That could control the moon, make flows and ebbs,
  SEBASTIAN. A living drollery. Now I will believe
    ballad but even too well, if it be doleful matter merrily set
     She's dead as earth. Lend me a looking glass.
  For God's sake, send some other messenger.
    and swore the devil his true liegeman upon the cross of a Welsh
    Our guider, come; to th' Roman camp conduct us.       Exeunt
    of the storm be past.
    Then to your offices, and let me rest.
    With that which he hath drunk tonight already,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    upon him.  
    Some vanity of mine art; it is my promise,
    against their own succession.
  AGUECHEEK. Why, would that have mended my hair?
    I dare not stand by; nor shall you be safer
  GLOUCESTER. Now is the winter of our discontent
    Which way hast thou been?
  FIRST LORD. There's an Italian come, and, 'tis thought, one of
    And Westmoreland, that was engag'd, did bear it;

  ISABELLA. Must he needs die?
    Jove's doing, and Jove make me thankful! And when she went away
    Make such unconstant children of ourselves,
SCENE II.
    for coughing in the street, because he hath wakened thy dog that
  BASTARD. I, madam? No, I have no reason for it-  

SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
      catch'd,
    Here stands my other son, a banish'd man,
    At all a friend to truth.  
    Bound sadly home for Naples,
    Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams

<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
    I'll carry it to the pile.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. There is not a white hair in your face but should
    I call upon thee.
    The skies are painted with unnumber'd sparks;  
    Father, tear the crown from the usurper's head.
    leg will fall; a straight back will stoop; a black beard will
  Within the gentle closure of my breast,
    Let me go to him.
    To blot out me and put his own son in.
    At what it did so freely? From this time
    Though you be therein curious, the least cause
SCENE IV.
    And every object that might make me fear
    To change a master. O, my fortunes have
  NORFOLK. If you will now unite in your complaints
  PORTER. His lordship is walk'd forth into the orchard.
  MACBETH. Throw physic to the dogs, I'll none of it.
  EXETER. Nay, but the man that was his bedfellow,

    A fortnight hold we this solemnity,
    And when you do them-
                                                          Exeunt

    Thy topless deputation he puts on;
    And see their blood or die with this reproach.
  JULIA. Then let it lie for those that it concerns.
    Why then, give way, dull clouds, to my quick curses!
    To die, even when they to perfection grow!
  Beat. I am stuff'd, cousin; I cannot smell.
    So your dislikes, to whom I would be pleasing,
    Of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts;
    Their loud applause and Aves vehement;
  SECOND CITIZEN. Most noble Caesar! We'll revenge his death.
  EMILIA.                   'Tis neither here nor there.
Enter Brutus, Lucilius, Lucius, and Soldiers; Titinius and Pindarus meet them.
  Duke Menaphon, your most renowned uncle.
    Doth with their death bury their parents' strife.
    For sluttish spoils of opportunity,  
    Let me march on and not offend you, madam.
    My mirth it much displeas'd, but pleas'd my woe.
    noon, that thou hast forgotten to demand that truly which thou
    Shall make their way seem short, as mine hath done  
    For to supply the places at the table,

      Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and MARDIAN
  EGLAMOUR. As many, worthy lady, to yourself!
  LUCENTIO. 'Hic ibat' as I told you before- 'Simois' I am Lucentio-
    [Aside]  They are both in either's pow'rs; but this swift
    yet, to crush this a little, it would bow to me, for every one of
  THERSITES. What art thou?


    Your tale must be how he employ'd my mother.
  TIMANDRA. Is this th' Athenian minion whom the world
  COUNTESS. In what case?  
  I'll say as they say, and persever so,
  CLEOMENES,    "   "     "
    When I am buried. Since Frenchmen are so braid,

    Had you a healthful ear to hear of it.
    Deliver'd up again with peaceful words?
  IMOGEN. O blessed that I might not! I chose an eagle,
    Overcome with moss and baleful mistletoe;
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
  HASTINGS. We have sent forth already.
  PRINCE JOHN. Fare you well, Falstaff. I, in my condition,
    To bear a poison, I would temper it;
  SHYLOCK. When it is paid according to the tenour.
    way; but I would it were morning, for I would fain be about the  
    He shall be lord of Lady Imogen,
    Enter the CLOWN, with a basket and two pigeons in it
    How foul it is; what rank diseases grow,
  CASSIUS. I have as much of this in art as you,
  Mer. Consort? What, dost thou make us minstrels? An thou make
    Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,
    Albeit I make a hazard of my head.
    Will modestly discover to yourself
    To shun the heaven that leads men to this hell.
  THERSITES. I would thou didst itch from head to foot and I had the
    O earth, which this blood drink'st, revenge his death!
  MIRANDA. How came we ashore?
             The sceptre, learning, physic, must
    I find at such proud rate that it outspeaks
    Patricians and plebeians, we create

    to me 'Gobbo, Launcelot Gobbo, good Launcelot' or 'good Gobbo' or
  BERTRAM. And by other warranted testimony.
    But what will you be call'd?
  Against the stormy gusts of winter's day
                     Enter SIR ANDREW
    Each way and move. I take my leave of you;
    What may it be? You do not doubt my faith, sir?
    But Brutus makes mine greater than they are.
  HECTOR. No more, I say.
                                                       [Dies]
    Thy goodly armour thus hath cost thy life.
    We'll have no Cupid hoodwink'd with a scarf,
    For 'tis thy rival. O thou senseless form,
    You said that idle weeds are fast in growth.

  ANTIGONUS. That's enough.  

  LORD HASTINGS

  SHYLOCK. What says that fool of Hagar's offspring, ha?
    wards I lie at, at a thousand watches.
    that. If you would conjure in her, you must make a circle; if
    O that men's ears should be
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Descend unto the daughter. Gracious lord,
    Let us once lose our oaths to find ourselves,
  DUKE. What, to perverseness? You uncivil lady,  
    faults,
    sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in't
    this night, to bed, and dream on the event. Farewell.
  MRS. FORD. Nay, I must tell you, so you do; or else I could
    And in the sacred Pantheon her espouse.
ACT II. SCENE I.
    Fat paunches have lean pates; and dainty bits
    My lord, these griefs shall be with speed redress'd;
  And, which was strange, the one so like the other
    And yet, between my soul's desire and me-
  Whilst upon me the guilty doors were shut,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    not only marvel where thou spendest thy time, but also how thou

    I was the next by birth and parentage;  
    rail'd upon me till her pink'd porringer fell off her head,
  GRUMIO. You are i' th' right, sir; 'tis for my mistress.

    As stout and proud as he were lord of all-
    The suit which you demand is gone and dead:
The DUKE'S palace
    To th' shore, that o'er his wave-worn basis bowed,
    Longer than swiftest expedition
    on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in all outward behaviours
    For peace itself should not so dull a kingdom,
    And more, much more than in my verse can sit,
    There shall he practise tilts and tournaments,
     Though women all above.
    I gave him gentle looks, thereby to find
  Reg. Sick, O, sick!
  LUCIO. Ay, that he raz'd.
    To do what service am I sent for hither?
    We see the wind sit sore upon our sails,
    enfreedoming thy person; thou wert immured, restrained,
  ALCIBIADES. Then there's my glove;
    You have right well conceited. Let us go,
    To th' fairness of my power.
    Fore your own eyes and ears?
    To show myself a glass.
    My true preserver, and a loyal sir
Flourish. Enter CHORUS

  MESSENGER. Caesar and he are greater friends than ever.
    By sovereignty of nature. First he was  
  Nurse. I will tell her, sir, that you do protest, which, as I take
      And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
SCENE III.
    Let him depart; his passport shall be made,
  LAFEU. I have then sinn'd against his experience and transgress'd
    With words of sooth! O that I were as great
    Whose daughter, as we hear, the Earl of March
     Trojan commanders:
    Sirrah, call in my sons to be my bail:        Exit attendant
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    And say 'Long live our Emperor Saturnine!'
    veux point que vous abaissiez votre grandeur en baisant la main
                                                    Exit [Fool].
    No better than a poor and loathsome beggar.
    Who wear our health but sickly in his life,
    I met and overtook a dozen captains,
    Your pleasure be fulfill'd!
  PAULINA. True, too true, my lord.
    The one is Murder, and Rape is the other's name;
    It will be pastime passing excellent,
  Ham. (within) Mother, mother, mother!
  ENOBARBUS. Then, world, thou hast a pair of chaps- no more;
    My fortunes and my friends at stake requir'd

  Pol. You shall do marvell's wisely, good Reynaldo,
  PETRUCHIO. Come, Kate, we'll to bed.
    O, let me view his visage, being dead,
  King. O, he is mad, Laertes.
    'Father, as it please me.'
    Some book there is that she desires to see.
    that it is most lamentable to behold. Sweet men, come to him.
    Now piercing to my soul. O, thus she stood,
    As thriftless sons their scraping fathers' gold.  
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. How now! a madman? Why, thou peevish sheep,
  PROTEUS. Ay, ay; and she hath offered to the doom-
  PORTIA. No more, I pray thee; I am half afeard
  THERSITES. A proof of strength she could not publish more,
  LAFEU. Out upon thee, knave! Dost thou put upon me at once both the
  SOLANIO. It is the most impenetrable cur
                                         [He cuts their throats]
    The bargain of your faith, I do beseech you
  SALERIO. 'Tis good we do so.        Exeunt SALERIO and SOLANIO
  GLOUCESTER. We shall, my liege.
    The doors are open, and the surfeited grooms
    Swear me to this, and I will ne'er say no.
  TROILUS. Dear, trouble not yourself; the morn is cold.
  LUCIO. I warrant your honour.
  Friar. Yea, wherefore should she not?
    Nor is he dead, for aught that I can tell.
    How much they do import, you would make haste.
  MESSENGER. Upon the stroke of four.
    For though usurpers sway the rule a while

  Gather the sequel by that went before.
    Have you laid fair the bed? Is all things well,
    Troilus shall be such to Cressid as what envy can say worst shall
    Read not my blemishes in the world's report.
    the disgrace we have digested; which, in weight to re-answer, his
    And ever will, though he do shake me off
    I may not go without you to the kings.
  Ham. 'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment hath the daintier
    certain.
      before,
    He is your husband on a pre-contract.
    And dar'st not stand, nor look me in the face.
    love shall grow stronger than it was before.

    To mend it or be rid on't.
    bestow on me the sense of hearing.
    And stain my favours in a bloody mask,

    These things being bought and orderly bestowed,
    I will attend the Queen.
    So swift a pace hath thought that even now
  FALSTAFF. What's the news, my lord?
    Were he my brother, nay, my kingdom's heir,
    For this proud mock I'll be thy slaughterman,
Enter TRUMPETS, sounding; then two ALDERMEN, LORD MAYOR, GARTER, CRANMER,
    and I paid nothing for it neither, but was paid for my
    Might well have given us bloody argument.
    sends him on purpose, that I may appear stubborn to him; for she
           Amen. So fall to't.
    And he himself will answer.
  IAGO. Why, he drinks you with facility your Dane dead drunk; he
  YORK. This oath I willingly take, and will perform.  
  Osr. I commend my duty to your lordship.
    send me word he cut it to please himself. This is call'd the Quip  
    Have I dispursed to the garrisons,
  PROVOST. [Reads] 'Whatsoever you may hear to the contrary, let
     Though their injunction be to bar my doors
    And never to let Beatrice know of it.
  PAROLLES. Sir, for a cardecue he will sell the fee-simple of his
    If little faults proceeding on distemper
    In doing this for's country. Athwart the lane
    With eager feeding food doth choke the feeder;  
        CANIDIUS marcheth with his land army one way
                        Enter BERTRAM  
  OTHELLO. Was not that Cassio parted from my wife?
    And yet, I warrant, it bad upon it brow
  POMPEY. What say'st thou?
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  LEONTES. Mark, and perform it- seest thou? For the fail
    Whereby my son is disinherited.
                 Enter a Gentleman [with Attendants].
    There is a change upon you.
    Of estimation and command in arms.
    Though therein you can never be too noble  
  FERDINAND. Most sure, the goddess
    Th' Antoniad, the Egyptian admiral,
    Obeying with my wind when I do blow,
    And full of new-found oaths, which he wul break
     To die before you please!
    What man is there so much unreasonable,
    To what I ask you.
  LUCULLUS. I have observed thee always for a towardly prompt spirit,
    Nor let no comforter delight mine ear
    Besides the things that we have heard and seen,
  TRINCULO. I did not give the lie. Out o' your wits and
    So much she doteth on her Mortimer.                    Exit.
  Save that my soul's imaginary sight
  Lady P. I will not sing.
    To you I am bound for life and education;
    And pleasure drown the brim.
    Which I did store to be my foster-nurse,
    To slay his daughter with his own right hand,
  WOLSEY. Tanta est erga te mentis integritas, regina serenis-sima-
  POET. Then this breaking of his has been but a try for his friends?
  SECOND CITIZEN. Consider you what services he has done for his
    To keep us in false gaze. When we consider
    Of Brabant and of Orleans, shall make forth,
  GLOUCESTER. What's his name?
    But come, the bow. Now mercy goes to kill,
  Lending soft audience to my sweet design,
    If his chief good and market of his time
    broken joint between you and her husband entreat her to splinter;
DUKE. She is a virtuous and a reverend lady;
Paris. The KING'S palace

    Nor do I as an enemy to peace
    knowing what they do!  

    Why, then to thee, thou silver treasure-house!


    companions, thither provoked and instigated by his
                                   Exit SALISBURY with the commons
                          A cry within, "A sail, a sail!" Guns heard.

  SILVIA. I thank you for your music, gentlemen.  
  Pedro. Runs not this speech like iron through your blood?
  ORLEANS. Foolish curs, that run winking into the mouth of a Russian

  SOLANIO. Let me say amen betimes, lest the devil cross my prayer,  
    Single you thither then this dainty doe,
  VERNON. Hark ye: not so. In witness, take ye that.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  DIOMEDES. Lady, a word. I'll bring you to your father.
    Now that their souls are topful of offence.
    Keep me in patience; and, with ripened time,  
    Hath broke their hearts. March, noble lord,
Scene IV.
    Lysander, if you live, good sir, awake.
SCENE VI.
  BOTH. What we can do, we'll do, to do you service.  
  FALSTAFF. Oh, oh, oh!
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  VALENTINE. Are all these things perceiv'd in me?
  FIRST LORD. Bear from hence his body,
    But, for some other reasons, my grave sir,
  HUBERT. Well, see to live; I will not touch thine eye
    ore will be melted, if you give him not John Drum's
    If not Achilles? Though 't be a sportful combat,
    Is like to lay upon us.
    What will ensue hereof there's none can tell;
    Is this the Prince, Is this the Prince's brother?
  QUEEN. Give me mine own again; 'twere no good part
by William Shakespeare
    How now, fellow?  
  VIOLA. I will answer you with gait and entrance. But we are
    And wherefore crave you combat, or with whom?

  Ham. That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once. How the

    I have been to you a true and humble wife,
    If so, gaze on, and grovel on thy face
    That grudge one thought against your Majesty!
    No humble suitors press to speak for right,
    court where your lady is, with no more advantage than the
    The varying shore o' th' world. O Antony,
    Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment,
    Steals ere we can effect them. You remember
  LAUNCELOT.  [Aside]  O heavens! This is my true-begotten father,
    Touch their effects in this. Thyself art coming
    Her valiant courage and undaunted spirit,
  Or as sweet-seasoned showers are to the ground;
  MOULDY. Spent!
    What may she not? She may-ay, marry, may she-
  KATHARINE. I thank you, honest lord. Remember me
  Wife. The people in the street cry 'Romeo,'
    Unreal mockery, hence!                           Exit Ghost.
  KATHARINE. O Griffith, sick to death!
    Or, having sworn too hard-a-keeping oath,
    Balk'd in their own blood did Sir Walter see
    Shall I endure the sight of Somerset?
     It were a delicate stratagem to shoe
       Re-enter SUFFOLK and WARWICK, with their weapons drawn
    And Somerset, with Oxford, fled to her.
     the foul fiend rages, eats cow-dung for sallets, swallows the
    Is the third man that e'er I saw; the first
    That work for bread upon Athenian stalls,
  PORTIA. Prithee, listen well.
    Her son into th' adoption of the crown;
  ANTIGONUS. Be certain what you do, sir, lest your justice

    Though 'twere to buy a world of happy days-
  King. Stay and breathe awhile.  
    Now do you know the reason of this haste.
    This feast of battle with mine adversary.
  Will you walk in to see their gossiping?
  Jul. What's he that now is going out of door?
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. I cannot delve him to the root; his father
    Still revelling like lords till all be gone;
  Leon. Some haste, my lord! well, fare you well, my lord.
    Our neighbour shepherd's son!
    Be measur'd or confin'd.
  ANTONY. So is the fame.
    If thou dar'st tempt me further, draw thy sword.     [Draws]
    And charg'd us from his soul to love each other,
        On chalic'd flow'rs that lies;

  What need'st thou wound with cunning when thy might
  SECOND OUTLAW. Have you the tongues?
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. After all this, how did he bear him-self
    But soft! behold! Lo, where it comes again!
    Sound trumpets; let our bloody colours wave,


    Unfit for mine own purposes.
  MRS. FORD. The hour draws on. To the oak, to the oak!
  WARWICK. Let Richard be restored to his blood;
    And now I cloy me with beholding it.
  DESDEMONA. Your honor is most welcome.
    O England! model to thy inward greatness,
    And each hour's joy wreck'd with a week of teen.
    That doth presume to boast of gentle blood.
  CELIA. Dear sovereign, hear me speak.

    You must report to th' Volscian lords how plainly
  ARMADO. Ha, ha, what sayest thou?

    Both thanks and use. But I do bend my speech
    Why didst thou say of late thou wert despis'd?
    T' oppose your cunning. Y'are meek and humble-mouth'd;
    How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself
    Defacers of a public peace than I do.
    Where Cupid got new fire; my mistress' eyes.
    her ape. He so near to Hermione hath done Hermione that they say
    Nurse! Wife! What, ho! What, nurse, I say!
    I will execute; and itshall go hard but I will better the
  SIXTH CITIZEN. He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest
    And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.
    Myself dispos'd to sleep.
    Than when I feel and see her no farther trust her;
    That she will light to listen to the lays,
    Mock not my senseless conjuration, lords.
    but it is not in my virtue to amend it.
    Adorn his temples with a coronet
  SLY. No, not a denier. Go by, Saint Jeronimy, go to thy cold bed
    That hath aspir'd to Solon's happiness
  Pol. Affection? Pooh! You speak like a green girl,
    believe that does harm to my wit.
    Tell o'er your woes again by viewing mine.
    For this contains our general grievances.
                    Enter Horatio and Marcellus.  
    And with what imitation you can borrow
    Even with the fierce looks of these bloody men.
    Without more certain and more overt test

  POSTHUMUS. 'Lack, to what end?
  JAQUES. Why, I have eat none yet.  
    [To CHIRON]  Do thou entreat her show a woman's pity.

    That never knew but better, is some burden.  
  CASSIUS. I blame you not for praising Caesar so;
  ARVIRAGUS. We'll speak it, then.
    He shift a trencher! he scrape a trencher!
    And sends them weapons wrapp'd about with lines
  CLOWN. He could never come better; he shall come in. I love a
  CAESAR. The ides of March are come.
    With female fairies will his tomb be haunted,
  PORTER. Madam, I will.
  BIANCA. Alas, he faints! O Cassio, Cassio, Cassio!
    Surely, by all the glory you have won,
    For villainy is not without such rheum;
  COMINIUS. Our spoils he kick'd at,
    As he is subtle, and as prone to mischief
    Upbraid's with our distress. But sure, if you
    Speak to them, noble Timon.
    To give up willingly that noble title

    What says the silver with her virgin hue?

    Takes prisoner the wild motion of mine eye,
    And finds the testy gentleman so hot
    season for your own harvest.
    When rich ones scarce tell true. To lapse in fulness
  HUBERT. What's that to thee? Why may I not demand
    As you shall deem yourself lodg'd in my heart,
    Beside, what infamy will there arise
    We'll leave a proof, by that which we will do,  
    Be every man himself?
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    After the inveterate hate he bears you.
    Than bring a burden of dishonour home
    To atone them, for the love I bear to Cassio.
    Then, Aaron, arm thy heart and fit thy thoughts

  SICINIUS. We hear not of him, neither need we fear him.
              Enter LA PUCELLE, guarded, and a SHEPHERD
    Why I descend into this bed of death
               And fears by pale white shown.
    And what not done, that thou hast cause to rue,
    A royal battle might be won and lost.
  ANTONY. Neglected, rather;  
    Against the Greeks that would have ent'red Troy.
    If it were so, I might have let alone
    His glorious deeds for my indignities.
    As art and practice hath enriched any
  ANTONY. You have heard much.
    But look thou stay not till the watch be set,
    lubber, the world, will prove a cockney. I prithee now, ungird
    Immediately to leave you and be gone.
    This may flies do, when I from this must fly;

    [To Lucio] Sneak not away, sir, for the friar and you
  YORK. We thank you, lords. But I am not your king
    Unto this king of smiles, this Bolingbroke-
    Like to the Egyptian thief at point of death,

    Nor let the rain of heaven wet this place
    For such proceeding I am charged withal-
ACT I. SCENE I.
    most contagious treason come to light, look you, as you shall
  SIR TOBY. What is thy excellence in a galliard, knight?
    If you may please to think I love the King,
  SECOND SENATOR. Most true; the law shall bruise him.


    And at the pit of Acheron
    As lamely as their manners. Lust and liberty,
    With one consent to have her so bestow'd;
                 Enter PAULINA, with a CHILD
                              SCENE:
    Stay not, be gone. Live, and hereafter say
  Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted;
    And brought Prince Henry in their company;
    Look to thyself, thou art in jeopardy.
    finger thus dally with my excrement, with my mustachio; but,
     The offices of nature, bond of childhood,  
  PROSPERO. Why, that's my spirit!
    Confederate with the Queen and her two sons;
    And when you would say something that is sad,
    ladies any thing. But let your fair eyes and gentle wishes go
  ARMADO. A most fine figure!
  LORENZO. The reason is your spirits are attentive;
    Helenus is a priest.


  Hot. Come, wilt thou see me ride?
    Thy tempest-tossed body. How now, wife?
    That Anne, my queen, is sick and like to die.
  TITANIA. Come, sit thee down upon this flow'ry bed,
           Go to thy deathbed;
    And in a captive chariot into Rouen
    Be Alcibiades your plague, you his,
    Who chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are.
    not Anne Page, I shall turn your head out of my door.
    How low am I? I am not yet so low

    Plant those that have revolted in the vant,
  MARCIUS. I'll fight with none but thee, for I do hate thee
    Not rascal-like to fall down with a pinch,
  Hero. Now, Ursula, when Beatrice doth come,
    But I will none of them; they are for you:  

  Corn. Bind fast his corky arms.
  MRS. PAGE. And, trust me, I was coming to you. You look
    Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters;
  BIONDELLO. Cambio.
    Caesar to you; in plain dealing, Pompey, I shall have you whipt.
     no hide, the sheep no wool, the cat no perfume. Ha! Here's three
  QUEEN MARGARET. This cheers my heart, to see your forwardness.
    Westmoreland.
    For blessed are the peacemakers on earth.  
  NERISSA. Your father was ever virtuous, and holy men at their death
    And she not hear of it?
  CLOWN. You have of these pedlars that have more in them than you'd
    This palpable-gross play hath well beguil'd
    'Twixt two such shes, would chatter this way and
  FORESTER. Yes, madam, fair.
    By what it fed on; and yet, within a month-
    Which will require your answer, you must take
  DAVY, servant to Shallow
  PISANIO. Madam, a noble gentleman of Rome
                                               [The LADIES mask]

                            and others
  Lear. If thou be'st as poor for a subject as he's for a king, thou
    Than such that do e'en enemies exceed.
  As to behold desert a beggar born,
    porter; and he was in love.
  I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
    Is spotless reputation; that away,
    How many prodigal bits have slaves and peasants
  MRS. FORD. Why, man, why?
    Must be companion of his nuptial bed.
    But thou, 'gainst all proportion, didst bring in
  DIOMEDES. She's bitter to her country. Hear me, Paris:
    Follow us to the court. Thou churl, for this time,  
    for his act, and but in the plainer and simpler kind of people

  KING HENRY. I tell thee truly, herald,
    The Earl of Pembroke keeps his regiment;
    For you love Hermia. This you know I know;
  CLEOPATRA. Be chok'd with such another emphasis!
    For as I am, I live upon the rack.
  SECOND OUTLAW. Indeed, because you are a banish'd man,
    Hear me yourself; for that which I must speak
    Pardon me, madam; I have unadvis'd
  GLOUCESTER. I say no more than truth, so help me God!
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    The firstlings of my hand. And even now,
    I like it well. France, shall we knit our pow'rs
  PUCK. This is the woman, but not this the man.

  JULIA. As little by such toys as may be possible.
  PETRUCHIO. Come, go along, and see the truth hereof;
    Pluck me out all the linen.
  FALSTAFF. Have you turn'd him out a doors?
  CORIOLANUS. YOU common cry of curs, whose breath I hate
  King. Here is a dear, a true-industrious friend,
  KING. Avoid the gallery.                     [LOVELL seems to stay]
    Among the thorns and dangers of this world.
    by this, worn out.
    And to that end I shortly mind to leave you.
  BOLINGBROKE. O heinous, strong, and bold conspiracy!
  SICINIUS. This a consul? No.
    When Caesar and your brother were at blows,  
    Do to this body what extremes you can,
  HERMIONE. By this we gather
  FOOL. How do you, gentlemen?
    Are much condemn'd to have an itching palm,
    He bids you name your griefs, and with all speed
    wild duck.
    That gentleman of Buckingham's. In person
  And with old woes new wail my dear time's waste:
  MRS. FORD. He will seek there, on my word. Neither press,  
    To mow 'em down before me; but if I spar'd any
  KEEPER. What was your dream, my lord? I pray you
    That ever lived in the tide of times.  
     For following her affairs. Put in his legs.-
  LOVELL.  [Aside]  This is about that which the bishop spake.
     The dark and vicious place where thee he got  
  Rom. Amen, amen! But come what sorrow can,
  VALENTINE. Then know that I have little wealth to lose;
If you look for a good speech now, you undo me; for what I have to say
  QUEEN. Weeps she still, say'st thou? Dost thou think in time
    frowning than the Count Palatine; he is every man in no man. If a
    Sir Gilbert Peck his chancellor, and John Car,
  TROILUS. The Greeks are strong, and skilful to their strength,
  ADRIAN. Tunis was never grac'd before with such a paragon
      Edgar, son of Gloucester.
  BOATSWAIN. Here, master; what cheer?
  CORIN. If you will see a pageant truly play'd
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Nay, she is worse, she is the devil's
  LUCETTA. That I might sing it, madam, to a tune.
  STARVELING. I fear it, I promise you.
    vouchsafe me a word?  

  DESDEMONA.                  The heavens forbid
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Of good or bad unto the general;
  Mess. Much deserv'd on his part, and equally rememb'red by Don

    The borrowed majesty, of England here.
    Believe't that we'll do anything for gold.
                                                Flourish. Exeunt
  CELIA. An excellent colour: your chestnut was ever the only colour.
    As prisoners to her womanly persuasion.
                                      Exeunt Macbeth and Lennox.
    This cursed injury.
  Oph. I think nothing, my lord.
  ANGELO. Plainly conceive, I love you.
    Will give thee time to leave our royal court,
    His rigorous course; but since he stands obdurate,
    Lo, hand in hand, Lucius and I will fall.
             Whilst the screech-owl, screeching loud,


  BRUTUS. Titinius' face is upward.
    His counsel now might do me golden service;
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
     In our sustaining corn. A century send forth.
    And didst contract and purse thy brow together,

    Edward's seven sons, whereof thyself art one,
    Why, Jessica, I say!
  MALVOLIO. 'If not, let me see thee a servant still.'
                       Re-enter ANNE PAGE
    But ere we could arrive the point proposed,
  ACHILLES. What, does the cuckold scorn me?
  OTHELLO. Why, how now, ho! from whence ariseth this?
  ANTONY. Sit, sir.
    That ever yet they heard.
    And be as sweet as sharp. We must away;  
    Devise the fittest time and safest way

  APEMANTUS. If thou couldst please me with speaking to me, thou
  Clown. A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! 'A pour'd a flagon of
    A se'nnight's speed. Great Jove, Othello guard,
  Fran. Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
    Can couch for fear but I will find them out;
  ORLANDO. Pray thee, marry us.
                         [HERMIONE comes down from the pedestal]
    On most part of their fleet.
    Your father's image is so hit in you
    More than with parting from my lord the King.
  VALENTINE. Why then a ladder, quaintly made of cords,
    O anything, of nothing first create!
    Welcome, ye warlike Goths; welcome, Lucius;
    Or I would see his heart out ere the priest
    How soon this mightiness meets misery.
    So long a-growing and so leisurely
    I will entreat you, when you see my son,
         Re-enter CLEOMENES, with FLORIZEL, PERDITA, and  
    a thing to you from his Majesty.
  KING. I have spoke long; be pleas'd yourself to say
  KING EDWARD. You'd think it strange if I should marry her.
  DERBY. But now the Duke of Buckingham and I
  Urs. His excellence did earn it ere he had it.
    house, which at that very distant time stood, as it were, in a
    But, now you have it, take it.
  CYMBELINE. What of him? He is
    The patterns that by God and by French fathers
                     Exeunt ANTONY and CLEOPATRA, with the train
    My credit now stands on such slippery ground,
    Saving your mincing, the capacity
  CAMPEIUS. Believe me, there's an ill opinion spread then,
    And that it was great pity, so it was,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  Clown. (Sings)
  HELENA, in love with Demetrius
    My bluest veins to kiss- a hand that kings
  ALONSO. Hence, and bestow your luggage where you found it.
    in thy other mouth.
    Would make such fearful and confused cries
    I'll be so bold to break the seal for once.          [Reads]
    England we love, and for that England's sake
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. We are wise girls to mock our lovers so.
  Kent. Is not this your son, my lord?
    When with his solemn tongue he did discourse
     All hearts against us. Edmund, I think, is gone,
    About his neck, yet never lost her lustre;
  PETRUCHIO. Am I not wise?
    I do beseech your Grace to pardon me,
    must be peopled. When I said I would die a bachelor, I did not
  LAUNCE. Marry, thus: when it stands well with him, it stands well
    That our renowned Rome, whose gratitude
    That, to pay grief, must of poor patience borrow.
    He hath honor'd me of late, and I have bought
    Why have those banish'd and forbidden legs
    Revenges burn in them, for their dear causes
    Their crownets regal from th' Athenian bay
    Burn house! Sink Athens! Henceforth hated be
  DUKE SENIOR. Proceed, proceed. We will begin these rites,
  NERISSA. And pardon me, my gentle Gratiano,
    I must uneasy make, lest too light winning
    He thinks, with Jove in heaven, or somewhere else,
    Clarence hath not another day to live;
    Do what you can, yours will not be entreated.
    As frozen water to a starved snake.
    Well could I leave our sport to sleep awhile.
  CASSIUS. Good night, my lord.
    Lord Angelo, having affairs to heaven,
            To give away thy land,
    My rapier in his bosom, and withal
    Sweet cell of virtue and nobility,
    I cannot, by the progress of the stars,
    A halting sonnet of his own pure brain,
      'Did not the heavenly rhetoric of thine eye,
     Talk of court news; and we'll talk with them too-
    Thou, old Adam's likeness, set to dress this garden,

PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    delivered upon the mellowing of occasion. But the gift is good in
    But there is come a messenger before,
    You are assembled; and my speech entreats
  DUKE. Thou dost speak masterly.
    Or shall we give the signal to our rage,
    Where is my Lord of Warwick?
                 Re-enter KATHERINA with BIANCA and WIDOW
    The anger of the King, nor guilty of,
    God join'd my heart and Romeo's, thou our hands;
  AGUECHEEK. And we do not, it is pity of our lives.
                And the youth mistook by me
    And mock for mock is only my intent.
  DOLL. By my troth, I kiss thee with a most constant heart.
    Thou wast born to conquer my country.

  CATESBY. My lord?  

    slept to-night? Would he not, a naughty man, let it sleep? A

  DOLL. I love thee better than I love e'er a scurvy young boy of
    Further this act of grace; and from this hour
    Now, Esperance! Percy! and set on.
  ROSALIND, daughter to the banished Duke
    The present benefit which I possess;
  BRUTUS. Remember March, the ides of March remember.

  Plead on her part some cause to you unknown;
  And wear their brave state out of memory.
    The scourge of greatness to be us'd on it-
    goodness hath made. Better not to have had thee than thus to want
  As his triumphant prize, proud of this pride,
    Let pale-fac'd fear keep with the mean-born man
    'Tis good you know not that you are his heirs,
  HECTOR. I am unarm'd; forego this vantage, Greek.
    Some cogging, cozening slave, to get some office,
  1. Watch. And that Count Claudio did mean, upon his words, to
    By day's approach look to be visited.
[Whispers]
  HELENA. Ay, madam, knowingly.
    And ere we have thy youthful wages spent
SCENE IV.
    If it be banish'd from the frosty head,
    Rescue, fair lord, or else the day is lost.
  For thou betraying me, I do betray
    Let us be jocund; will you troll the catch
    By debitor and creditor. This counter-caster,

    Or in the beached margent of the sea,
Sound a sennet. Enter the KING, the QUEEN, CARDINAL, SUFFOLK, YORK,
    three German devils, three Doctor Faustuses.
    To make you brothers, and to knit your hearts
  When I was wont to greet it with my lays,
  MALVOLIO. Good fool, help me to some light and some paper.
    By this time from their fixed beds of lime  
    die and drab I purchas'd this caparison; and my revenue is the
                  Enter Benedick [unmasked].

    in love; but a team of horse shall not pluck that from me; nor
  Who plead for love, and look for recompense,
  FALSTAFF. Well said, Master Silence.
  Hor. Good my lord, be quiet.
  Speak of the spring, and foison of the year,
    But I might see young Cupid's fiery shaft
  ENOBARBUS. Alack, sir, no! Her passions are made of nothing but the
    For then I hope thou wilt not keep him long
  RIVERS. She may, my lord; for-
    Upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive,
  Glou. Alack, I have no eyes!
    Is run in your displeasure.
    Is as the very centre of the earth,
    Sirrah, come on.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    That lowliness is young ambition's ladder,
    if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer.
  LODOVICO, nobleman of Venice, kinsman of Brabantio
    Must not be toss'd and turn'd to me in words,
  PROLOGUE, PYRAMUS, THISBY, WALL, MOONSHINE, LION are presented by:
  Pol. God b' wi' ye, fare ye well!
          The one in motley here,
    And y'are welcome all.
    First to my God and next unto your Grace.           [Kneels]

  KING. What say you, lords? Why, this was quite forgot.
    This pausingly ensu'd: "Neither the King nor's heirs,
    My charms crack not, my spirits obey; and time
                           EPILOGUE.
  FIRST LORD. Royal cheer, I warrant you.
  LUCIUS. Sirs, stop his mouth, and let him speak no more.  
  Dog. Ha, ah, ha! Well, masters, good night. An there be any matter

    And, in the publication, make no strain  
    A coin that bears the figure of an angel  
    Be you content to lend your patience to us,
  ANGELO. Well, I beseech you, let it be proclaim'd;

    Why, so didst thou. Come they of noble family?
  CAESAR. Most certain. Sister, welcome. Pray you
  SECOND STRANGER. But believe you this, my lord, that not long ago
  CLEOMENES. You tempt him over-much.

    I'll be as patient as a gentle stream,
    heavy reckoning to make when all those legs and arms and heads,
  Why write I still all one, ever the same,
    Or am I mad, hearing him talk of Juliet
    Rome, be as just and gracious unto me
  FLUELLEN. I pray you and beseech you that you will.
  CAESAR. I thank you for your pains and courtesy.  
     His fault is much, and the good King his master
    O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,

    For making me, so young, so old a widow;
     How chance the King comes with so small a number?
    flirt-gills; I am none of his skains-mates. And thou must stand
    Perform'd, my Ariel; a grace it had, devouring.  
  Tired with all these for restful death I cry,
  FALSTAFF. Peace, good Doll! Do not speak like a death's-head; do
    In more than this deed does require! And blessing

              To Cymbeline perform'd.
    ring, which, in my opinion, o'ervalues it something. But I make
        sons, ALARBUS, DEMETRIUS, and CHIRON, with AARON the
    Than will preserve just so much strength in us
    extempore. Thou hadst fire and sword on thy side, and yet thou
    Two lovely berries moulded on one stern;
    That magical word of war, we have effected;
  No matter then although my foot did stand
  GAOLER. I do believe it.
    been allowed the name of. But I could then have look'd on him
  FANG. If I can close with him, I care not for his thrust.
         Enter QUEEN MARGARET, CLIFFORD, NORTHUMBERLAND,

  PAROLLES. Ten o'clock. Within these three hours 'twill be time
    And Roman Lucrece for her chastity.
  CHARLES. Duke of Alencon, this was your default
    say I got them in exploit. Yet slight ones will not carry it.
    They say in great extremity, and fear'd
  TROILUS. I was about to tell thee: when my heart,
  BUCKINGHAM. Have done, have done.
    For, lo! within a ken our army lies-
    When that the sleeping man should stir; for 'tis
    Though palaces and pyramids do slope
  CADE. Iden, farewell; and be proud of thy victory. Tell Kent from
    Why dost thou show to the apt thoughts of men
    When Imogen is dead.
    Pluck the young sucking cubs from the she-bear,
  Cap. All things that we ordained festival  
    Confronted him with self-comparisons,
  CLOWN. I will help you to't. But tell me true, are you not mad
    One of my fellows had the speed of him,
    To what is pass'd already.
  KING RICHARD. Good or bad news, that thou com'st in so
    The French fight coldly, and retire themselves.  
    Let me speak proudly: tell the Constable
  WOLSEY. The Duke of Buckingham's surveyor? Ha!
    And answer was return'd that he will come.
    Hast made thine enemies?
    what is yours to bestow is not yours to reserve. But this is from
  BERTRAM. I would I knew in what particular action to try him.
  FALSTAFF. Mouldy and Bullcalf: for you, Mouldy, stay at home till
    And thou shalt bear it; wilt thou, Silvius?
    Till half an hour hence.
  GLOUCESTER. Beside, my lord, the sooner to effect
  FIRST KEEPER. Richard Plantagenet, my lord, will come.
  SATURNINUS. So, Bassianus, you have play'd your prize:
  SILVIUS. So holy and so perfect is my love,
     sister most, and with what poor judgment he hath now cast her
  IAGO. What is your pleasure, madam? How is't with you?
    Or else a rude despiser of good manners,
    Well ratified by law and heraldry,
    And have the summary of all our griefs,
    Of hounds and echo in conjunction.
    As like enough it will- I'ld have it copied.
  CASSIUS. The clock hath stricken three.
    spend less; and yet he would embrace no counsel, take no warning
  CHARLES. Bastard of Orleans, thrice welcome to us.
    Or hide your heads like cowards, and fly hence.
    The interim, by rememb'ring you 'tis past.
    The help of heaven we count the act of men.
    Is yet the cover of a fairer mind
  Ham. Who commands them, sir?
    Do Caesar what he can. Know, sir, that I
    'Swounds, I should take it! for it cannot be
    That I am free of your report, he knows
  GUIDERIUS. I have spoke it, and I did it.
     And after slew herself.


    Like empty purses pick'd; and his poor self,
    Of that true hand that fought Rome's quarrel out
    That, if I then had wak'd after long sleep,
    Like Turkish mute, shall have a tongueless mouth,
    You'll show a little honesty.
  CRESSIDA. O heavens! you love me not.
  ISABELLA. O, were it but my life!  

    wit. I will bid thee draw, as we do the minstrel--draw to
    Whose baser stars do shut us up in wishes,
    I must become a borrower of the night
    ill thing to be off'red to any gentlewoman, and very weak dealing.
    Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto.


    To help him to his grave immediately!
    In his abominations, turns you off,
    It's fit this royal session do proceed
  And therewithal took measure of my body.
  PANDARUS. Go to, sweet queen, go to-commends himself most
     Love not such nights as these. The wrathful skies
    your hearts are mighty, your skins are whole, and let burnt
    I prithee, speak to me as to thy thinkings,
    Now leaves him.
                Re-enter Cassio, driving in Roderigo.
    join you together as they join wainscot; then one of you will
    O polish'd perturbation! golden care!
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Sad stories chanced in the times of old.

    May not extend so far as to the lady;
    If the first that did th' edict infringe
    But sith I am enter'd in this cause so far,
    With our discourse to make your Grace to smile.
  TRAVERS and MORTON, retainers of Northumberland

    Stabb'd in my angry mood at Tewksbury?
    To bring you in again.
                             Exeunt KING, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN
    Betwixt our armies true intelligence.
    To the last article. My lord shall never rest;
    For God's sake let us sit upon the ground
  FALSTAFF. It hath it original from much grief, from study, and
  GUIDERIUS. A thing
    Bewitch your hearts; be wise and circumspect.
  MOTH. An excellent device! So, if any of the audience hiss, you may
                   Enter LION and MOONSHINE
    Our Rome will cast upon thee.
    will be your Rosalind in a more coming-on disposition; and ask me  
    Is as our earing. Fare thee well awhile.
    A mile before his tent fall down, and knee
  SANDYS. The devil fiddle 'em! I am glad they are going,
                 [The English party whisper together in council]
    Titus, unkind, and careless of thine own,
    We bring it to the hive, and, like the bees,
    have earn'd him. Away.
  BIONDELLO. Sir, my mistress sends you word
    He wag'd me with his countenance as if
     Tigers, not daughters, what have you perform'd?
  BASTARD. 'Tis true-to hurt his master, no man else.

    One half of me is yours, the other half yours-  
    Is not a single doom; in the name lay
    Even to the court, the heart, to th' seat o' th' brain;
  ACHILLES. Where, where? O, where? Art thou come? Why, my cheese, my
    Where valiant Talbot, above human thought,
  LADY NORTHUMBERLAND. I have given over, I will speak no more.
    As to o'erwalk a current roaring loud
    As that same ague which hath made you lean.
  Bene. [aside to Claudio] You are a villain. I jest not; I will make
  WARWICK. For grief that they are past recovery;
    A trespass that doth vex my grieved soul;
    Alive again? Then show me where he is;

    That he could nothing do but wish and beg
  And to his palate doth prepare the cup.
    That will undo her. To confirm this too,
  DUKE. You shall not be admitted to his sight.  

    And bid them speak for me. But were I Brutus,
    If Dauphin and the rest will be but rul'd.



    be call'd 'Bottom's Dream,' because it hath no bottom; and I will
    I should be guiltier than my guiltiness,
    Against the hospitable canon, would I
    Addicted so and so'; and there put on him
    His present reconciliation take;
  PETRUCHIO. What, art thou asham'd of me?
    quae's, and your quod's, you must be preeches. Go your


    To shallow-
    Drew to defend him when he was beset;
    But yet, indeed, the smaller is his daughter;
    ta'en his bow and arrows, and is gone forth- to sleep. Look, who
  MESSALA. How died my master, Strato?  
    The woods are ruthless, dreadful, deaf, and dull.
    Unfurnish'd of her well-beseeming troop?
  CAESAR. 'Tis done already, and messenger gone.
    And they watch too. Now, 'mongst this flock of drunkards,
                                          [LAVINIA kisses TITUS]
  POLIXENES. O, not by much!  
  QUEEN. Thy sale of offices and towns in France,
    But in the wind and tempest of her frown
    At a poor man's house; he us'd me kindly.
    And now you know my meaning.
  Nurse. His name is Romeo, and a Montague,
    To th' winds, whose pity, sighing back again,
  DESDEMONA.                  No, as I shall be saved.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    From this unhallow'd and blood-stained hole?
  WESTMORELAND. He is both King and Duke of Lancaster;
  ANTONY. Would I had never seen her!
    Go, leave me.                                        Exit Emilia.
  Hor. Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon.
    And give your hearts to, when they once perceive
  CROMWELL. My mind gave me,
  CADE. But then are we in order when we are most out of order. Come,
  OTHELLO.                       What dost thou mean?
  THESEUS. Let him approach.              [Flourish of trumpets]
    See them well entertain'd.                              Exit
    In such a righteous fashion as I do,
  FIRST WITCH. Say, if thou'dst rather hear it from our mouths,
    Through the false passage of thy throat, thou liest.
    But on thy side I may not be too forward,
    Do on the oak, have with one winter's brush
    looks ill, it eats drily; marry, 'tis a wither'd pear; it was



  Reg. I know't- my sister's. This approves her letter,

  Prince. Not a whit, i' faith. I lack some of thy instinct.
    Our knees still kneel till to the ground they grow.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  MESSENGER. Brown, madam; and her forehead
  PHILOTUS. I wonder on't; he was wont to shine at seven.
    And after one hour more 'twill be eleven;
    I down, and measure out my grave. Farewell, kind master.
    Hath pass'd in safety through the narrow seas
    From giving aid which late I promised.
    Withdrew me from the odds of multitude.
  Serv. He is, my lord, an hour ago.
  BASTARD. The spirit of the time shall teach me speed.
  BOLINGBROKE. Exton, I thank thee not; for thou hast wrought
  GRUMIO. Nathaniel's coat, sir, was not fully made,  
    Began to water. Is thy master coming?

  CHARLES. Was Mahomet inspired with a dove?  
  Ran hither to your Grace; whom I beseech
  VIOLA. A blank, my lord. She never told her love,
  Other. Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or a
    To hold in right and tide of the female;
    My learned lord, we pray you to proceed,
    But now mischance hath trod my title down
  CASSIUS. You are dull, Casca, and those sparks of life
    (Things standing thus unknown) shall live behind me!
    Which is so plain that Exeter doth wish
    wooing, win her to consent to you; if any man may, you
    To vie strange forms with fancy; yet t' imagine
    To tell it o'er. Go to; well said, well said.
    O fairest beauty, do not fear nor fly!
  TOUCHSTONE. I durst go no further than the Lie Circumstantial, nor
    Montagues.
  DEMETRIUS. So, now go tell, an if thy tongue can speak,

  Cap. How canst thou try them so?
    To see him walk before a lady and to bear her fan!
    plough-irons.
    In soft and delicate Lethe.
    And on the proof, there is no more but this-
  SERVANT. He did.
    But an unkind self, that itself will leave
  KING RICHARD. Sweetly in force unto her fair life's end.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    you have said.
    And Death unloads thee. Friend hast thou none;
    For being a little bad; so may my husband.
    Which I have given to you?

    What cannot be amended.
    Be bold in us: we'll follow where thou lead'st,
    Whose aged honour cites a virtuous youth,

  CASSIUS. You wrong me every way, you wrong me, Brutus.

  EMILIA.                         'Twill out, 'twill. I peace?
    That everything I look on seemeth green;
  BAPTISTA. Neighbours and friends, though bride and bridegroom wants
    O heresy in fair, fit for these days!

    And every tongue brings in a several tale,

    On height of our displeasure. Friend or brother,
  Gon. At your choice, sir.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  Reg. Not altogether so.
  MRS. FORD. Pray you, do so; she's a very tattling woman.
                        Enter PANDARUS  
    Methinks I should not thus be led along,
  KING. Fair sir, God save you! Where's the Princess?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    They'll be in fresher robes, or they will pluck
    A good mouth-filling oath; and leave 'in sooth'
                     118
    Observ'd his courtship to the common people;
  CHARMIAN. Good madam, keep yourself within yourself:
    Yet not so sound and half so deeply sweet
  BOTH TRIBUNES. Well, say. Peace, ho!
    tongue? You will do't, sir, really.
    And so beguile thy sorrow, till the heavens
  Fool. An thou hadst been set i' th' stocks for that question,
  KING HENRY. Ay, my good lord- my lord, I should say rather.
    As rous'd with rage, with rage doth sympathise,

    Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,
              Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES
  ULYSSES. They tax our policy and call it cowardice,
    They are entirely welcome.
     For which thou whip'st her. The usurer hangs the cozener.

    But one that's here; and that's himself; for he
  SUFFOLK. Fair Margaret knows
    The winds of March with beauty; violets, dim
  FIRST LORD. Not till after midnight; for he is dieted to his hour.
  Jul. Not proud you have, but thankful that you have.
    Besides, I'll make a present recompense.              Exeunt

     If you do love old men, if your sweet sway
  CAESAR. Till which encounter

    The strong necessity of time commands
    There lies thy part.                [Strikes her. She falls]
    By one that I'll procure to come to thee,
    Tubal, a wealthy Hebrew of my tribe,
    Fled with a Christian! O my Christian ducats!
    Unless it be to think that she is by,
    TAMORA, with AEMILIUS, TRIBUNES, SENATORS, and others

    Tabors and cymbals, and the shouting Romans,
    For I did play a lamentable part.
    And can do nought but wail her darling's loss,
    Norfolk.
    I have had a dream, past the wit of man to say what dream it was.
    And harsh in sound to thine.  
    woman down; my husband will come into the chamber.
    I must aboard to-morrow.
    Whose wisdom was a mirror to the wisest;
  MENENIUS. I'll bring him to you.
  Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
    In gross rebellion and detested treason.
ADRIANA. Alas, I sent you money to redeem you,
  SECOND MURDERER. Never, my lord; therefore prepare to die.
    Myself and you, son Harry, will towards Wales
  ROSALIND. I pray you do not fall in love with me,  
    And venture maidenhead for 't; and so would you,
    Let me for this my life-time reign as king.
  SIR JOHN MORTIMER, uncle to the Duke of York
  MRS. OVERDONE. I am too sure of it; and it is for getting Madam
    In every power that moves.
  O'ercharged with burthen of mine own love's might:  
    To bear the matter thus- mere weakness. If
    And that it should lie with you in your grave;
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. You have prevail'd. I will depart in quiet,
    Do not name Silvia thine; if once again,
    Hath fed upon the body of my father;
  HUBERT. So well that what you bid me undertake,
    The air hath starv'd the roses in her cheeks
  LEONTES. Go play, Mamillius; thou'rt an honest man.

    Than music from the spheres.
    carried away; and, which is more, within these three days his
    Whilst I am bound to wonder, I am bound
    And when my face is fair you shall perceive
    for moving such a dish of skim milk with so honourable an action!
    Tooth'd briers, sharp furzes, pricking goss, and thorns,
    So worthless peasants bargain for their wives,
    I thought you lord of more true gentleness.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  OLIVER. What mar you then, sir?
    Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
    Tidings, as swiftly as the posts could run,
  PYRAMUS. O grim-look'd night! O night with hue so black!
    Crowns in my purse I have, and goods at home,
    Doth not the object cheer your heart, my lord?
  BOY. O grandsire, grandsire! ev'n with all my heart
  CALIBAN. When Prospero is destroy'd.
    Unclasp'd my practice, quit his fortunes here,
    And silken dalliance in the wardrobe lies;
    What Clarence but a quicksand of deceit?
    On a dissension of a doit, break out
    gold and the falling-from of his friends drove him into this
    In Oxfordshire shalt muster up thy friends.
  KEEPER. Yes, my lord;
  ANTONIO. I am th' unhappy subject of these quarrels.
    The young'st and oldest thing.  
    With half the bulk o' th' world play'd as I pleas'd,
    But instruments of some more mightier member
  POMPEY. I thank your worship for your good counsel; [Aside] but I
    Infects the sound pine, and diverts his grain
    Is hack'd down, and his summer leaves all faded,

  AEMILIUS, a noble Roman  
    But I shall do thee mischief in the wood.
  SIR TOBY. My most exquisite Sir Topas!
    story of the Prodigal, fresh and new. Go, knock and can; he'll
    To hear me speak the message I am sent on.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I'll make you amends next, to
    Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.
    this business; I dare swear this is the right Vincentio.
    loved thyself better now. What man didst thou ever know unthrift
  I make my love engrafted to this store:
  HORTENSIUS. Lucius! What, do we meet together?
    At Holmedon met,
    Take all the swift advantage of the hours;
  BIANCA. What is the matter, ho? Who is't that cried?
                                     Exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON
    Among the buzzing pleased multitude,
    This royal hand and mine are newly knit,
    Sitting in the sun under the dovehouse wall.
    Shall raise such artificial sprites
     Thou hotly lusts to use her in that kind
    a good scholar; he is at Oxford still, is he not?
  John. I remember.
    Throw in the frozen bosoms of our part
  TYRREL. If to have done the thing you gave in charge
  MARIA,      "     "       "  "     "
    Ever belov'd and loving may his rule be;
    was for his country, he did it to please his mother and to be
                     8
  AUTOLYCUS. O, that's the case of the shepherd's son! Hang him,
     before the King? [Draws his sword.] Draw, you rogue! for, though
  Come, I will fasten on this sleeve of thine;
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What gold is this? What Adam dost thou mean?
  CLOWN. I wish you all joy of the worm.  

    'Twas men I lack'd, and you will give them me;
  Thus can my love excuse the slow offence,
    Takes on the point of honour to support
  With sleided silk feat and affectedly
    Shall this our lofty scene be acted over
    And punish them to your height of pleasure.
    [To ROSALINE] Here, sweet, put up this; 'twill be thine another
    To pluck him headlong from the usurped throne.

  At such who not born fair no beauty lack,
  SECOND SERVANT. Lepidus is high-colour'd.
    She shall not strike Dame Eleanor unreveng'd.           Exit
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  LEONTES. I think so. Kill'd!
  KATHERINA. I' faith, sir, you shall never need to fear;
  PISTOL. As I suck blood, I will some mercy show.
             With this field-dew consecrate,
    Here, here she comes. I'll have a bout with thee.
    The means of weakness and debility;
  Par. Thou wrong'st it more than tears with that report.
    She will a handmaid be to his desires,
      Mercutio and his brother Valentine;
    And manhood is call'd foolery when it stands  
    Madam, good night. Commend me to your daughter.
    With golden cherubins is fretted; her andirons-
           and FRANCISCO. They all enter the circle which
    But, if ever the Duke return, as our prayers are he may, let me
                               Something sure of state,
    'Happy am I that have a man so bold  
  CASSIUS. And why should Caesar be a tyrant then?
  FIRST SENATOR.            Indeed they are disproportion'd;
  JAQUES. Let's present him to the Duke, like a Roman conqueror; and
    more said? He is good, and fair. Is Sir John Falstaff here?
    Past thought! What said she to you? Get more tapers.
  FALSTAFF. If I do, fillip me with a three-man beetle. A man can no
  Mort. In faith, he is a worthy gentleman,
    There is one tree, the phoenix' throne, one phoenix
<Exeunt all but ADRIANA, LUCIANA, OFFICERS, and COURTEZAN
  BIANCA. Where left we last?
  HOLOFERNES. What mean you, sir?
  PUCK. I remember.
    Off with the crown and with the crown his head;

    And when we have our naked frailties hid,
  HELENA. You are my mother, madam; would you were-
  QUEEN KATHARINE. In England
    if I die, I give thee my apron; and, Will, thou shalt have my
  LADY GREY. Three, my most gracious lord.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. 'Tis true; she rides me, and I long for grass.
     You know the goodness I intend upon you.
        And the mountain tops that freeze,
  KING EDWARD. What, Warwick, wilt thou leave die town and fight?  
ACT V. SCENE 3.
  KING RICHARD. Right, you say true: as Hereford's love, so his;
  BOLINGBROKE. With all my heart
  Jul. Where I have learnt me to repent the sin
    Why, let the war receive't in valiant gore;
    Our Alexandrian revels; Antony
  FIRST LORD. Where be our men?
    Put in their hands Thy bruising irons of wrath,  
    What! we have many goodly days to see.
    sea with the Ten Commandments, but scrap'd one out of the table.
    He will have other means to cut you off;
    Make them best seen and known.
  TOUCHSTONE. Such a one is a natural philosopher. Wast ever in
    I would fain dissuade him, but he will not be entreated. Speak to
  DESDEMONA.                  No, by this heavenly light!
    That good convenience claims.
    Each way to better yours.
      love?
    How now, my as fair as noble ladies- and the moon, were she
    That the bleak air, thy boisterous chamberlain,

ACT III. Scene I.
  CLOWN. O, thereby hangs a tail.
    She is not for your turn, the more my grief.
  BEROWNE. The King he is hunting the deer: I am coursing myself.
    with our swords, and that Pyramus is not kill'd indeed; and for  
    And grew a twenty years removed thing
  STEPHANO. Mum, then, and no more. Proceed.
            Have power to raise such love in mine,
    With gentle eye-drops. He is coming hither.
  Urs. I know you well enough. You are Signior Antonio.  
    To lay aside life-harming heaviness


    Retorts to chiding fortune.
                              [GLOUCESTER and CLARENCE withdraw]
    If that thy bent of love be honourable,
SCENE VII.
    And tender preservation of our person,

    Two of the dangerous consorted traitors
    Who quickly fell before him; in which hurtling
  ROSALINE. Nor shall not, if I do as I intend.
  And when a woman woos, what woman's son,
    Must I give way and room to your rash choler?
    That were the authors.
    Thy niece and I, poor creatures, want our hands,

  SILVIA. How tall was she?
  And dumb presagers of my speaking breast,
    Shallow that no man could better command his servants. It is
    For you have stol'n their buzzing, Antony,
  OLD LADY. An hundred marks? By this light, I'll ha' more!
  CAESAR. Hence! Wilt thou lift up Olympus?

    Flourish.                                             Exeunt

    I shall unfold equal discourtesy
    Come to me soon at night.                               Exit
  KING RICHARD. O villains, vipers, damn'd without redemption!
  VALENTINE. How does your lady, and how thrives your love?
  COMINIUS. 'Twas from the canon.
  PATROCLUS. You rascal!
    That shall demonstrate these quick blows of Fortune's

    well were some of your brags dismounted.
    And then the moon, like to a silver bow
    To banish him that struck more blows for Rome
    Fly toward Belmont. Come, Antonio.                    Exeunt
    lawns. Why he sings 'em over as they were gods or goddesses; you
     Not sure, though hoping of this good success,
  MACDUFF. Humh! I guess at it.


    But more when envy breeds unkind division:
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  TAMORA. Farewell, my sons; see that you make her sure.
  VALENTINE. As much to you at home; and so farewell!
    Most welcome!
    But not till I am dead. I'll say th' hast gold.
    Their over-greedy love hath surfeited.

                                         [Giving him a shilling]

    And brought in matter that should feed this fire;
            Little knows this love in me;
    And ere I take this charm from off her sight,
    Which warp'd the line of every other favour,
    To sparkle in the spirits of my daughter,
  ANTONY. Let us go. Come.
    Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
   Any retirement, any sequestration
    A stony adversary, an inhuman wretch,
    Hath made me rig my navy, at whose burden
    You are the King's now.
    And there are twenty weak and wearied posts
    You have great reason to do Richard right;
  Ham. Sir, my good friend- I'll change that name with you.
  LONGAVILLE. Let's part the word.
    Your brows are blacker; yet black brows, they say,

    Than when it was a-doing.
    Though not for Rome itself.
ACT_4|SC_5
    My wit untrain'd in any kind of art.
  MASTER OF A SHIP
    She intends unto his Holiness.
    Much more a knight, a captain, and a leader.
    Supply his life, or that which can command it.
    And both are ready in their offices

  MACBETH. Hark!
    Which trust accordingly, kind citizens,

    Out of his envy's reach, I do oppose
    Give me the paper; let me read the same;
  HOSTESS. Come, I'll drink no proofs nor no bullets. I'll drink no

    the wings she flew withal.
                                                Dance. [Exeunt.]
  MRS. PAGE. He is a better scholar than I thought he was.
    What kind of god art thou, that suffer'st more
    And yet, when wit and youth is come to harvest,
    God forbid! Where's this girl? What, Juliet!
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  PANDULPH. Before the curing of a strong disease,
    your conscience. And so I leave you.                   Exit.
    Who respects friend?
    Heaven knows what she has known.
    Upon the error that you heard debated.
    of mine.
            Here enters ARIEL before; then ALONSO, with
    To jump a body with a dangerous physic
    To you Duke Humphrey must unload his grief
    Hard-favour'd Richard? Richard, where art thou?

    With rounds of waxen tapers on their heads,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
                  Enter BRAKENBURY the Lieutenant
  PROTEUS. Go, go, be gone, to save your ship from wreck,
  AUTOLYCUS. I am a poor fellow, sir.

  LUCIO. Within two hours.

  HOSTESS. Marry, if thou wert an honest man, thyself and the money
    When have I aught exacted at your hands,
    poor humour of mine, sir, to take that that man else will. Rich
                    Enter Ross.
    herein?
    With this thy fair and outward character.
  CATO,     supportor of Brutus

    brothers,
    O rarely base!
    My joy of liberty is half eclips'd.
    What peace you'fl make, advise me. For my part,
    Have the patricians of you. For your wants,
  MESSENGER. Royal commanders, be in readiness;
    not march through Coventry with them, that's flat. Nay, and the

  HELENA. All's Well That Ends Well yet,
  HELENA. O that my prayers could such affection move!
    As fits the bridal. Beshrew me much, Emilia,
    I was born free as Caesar, so were you;
    It cannot be, an if thou wert his mother.
  DUKE. Where your good word cannot advantage him,
    Yet with my nobler reason 'gainst my fury
    to fifteen thousand poll; half of the which dare not shake the
  CATESBY. My liege, the Duke of Buckingham is taken-  
    forsook him; he's much out of health and keeps his chamber.
  BUSHY. Despair not, madam.
                                                    Exit CATESBY
    Leave not a rack behind. We are such stuff
    Some messenger betwixt me and the peers;
    To meet at Ninus' tomb, there, there to woo.  
  KING HENRY. Canst thou dispense with heaven for such an oath?
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    wont to be a follower, but now you are a leader. Whether
    To Tubal and to Chus, his countrymen,
  Corn. Nor I, assure thee, Regan.
    trib.                                                 Exeunt
                 Enter a MESSENGER, blowing
    fairest, that would have won any woman's heart; and I
    Which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
    home indeed?

Enter ANGELO
    Than wife is to the husband? If this law
  ARVIRAGUS. Fear no more the frown o' th' great;
    Is but a preface of her worthy praise.
    What, are men mad? Hath nature given them eyes
  FORD. Has Page any brains? Hath he any eyes? Hath he any
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Here's snip and nip and cut and slish and slash,

    sinews, or else there be liars. Hector shall have a great catch
    And if I have a conscience, let it sink me
  These are the parents to these children,
    With such love as 'tis now, the murkiest den,
    To take the safest occasion by the front
  BRUTUS. Do you know them?
    Yet weep that Harry's dead, and so will I;
     In the restoring his bereaved sense?
SECOND MERCHANT. The hour steals on; I pray you, sir, dispatch.
    Meantime, in signal of my love to thee,
                        PROLOGUE
    Henry the Seventh succeeding, truly pitying
  Thou of thy self thy sweet self dost deceive,
    Go, and be rul'd; although I know thou hadst rather
    Use me well in't. Sister, prove such a wife

  MARCIUS. Sir, praise me not;
    The Douglas and the Hotspur both together
    They have all denied him.
    Commend me to the princes in our camp;
  DUKE. Nor, gentle daughter, fear you not at all.
    O God, she comes! O honey nurse, what news?
    knave's visage, with a pox to you! Show your sheep-biting face,
    To put down Richard, that sweet lovely rose,
    from me? Reflect I not on thy baseness court-contempt? Think'st
  Now with the drops of this most balmy time,
Dramatis Personae
        Alarum. Enter ANTONY, again in a march; SCARUS
  LEWIS. Strong reasons makes strong actions. Let us go;
    That rheumatic diseases do abound.
    And therefore I forbid my tears; but yet
    No, let them satisfy their lust on thee.
  So then I am not lame, poor, nor despised,
    But that the earthy and cold hand of death
    My courage try by combat if thou dar'st,
Gloucestershire
    Had I it written, I would tear the word.
    That are so fortified against our story,
    How I did thrive in this fair lady's love
    They shall have wars and pay for their presumption.
  IMOGEN. If you but said so, 'twere as deep with me.
     He smil'd at it. I told him you were coming:
    That frosts will bite them. When we mean to build,
    I have great hope in that; for in her youth
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I understand thee not.
  LORD BARDOLPH. Yes, if this present quality of war-
ACT V. SCENE I.
    Now spurs the lated traveler apace
    My tailor made them not.
  HELENA. Not my virginity yet.
    That does afflict each other!
  CYMBELINE. I have surely seen him;
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
     [To the Fool] And thou, his yokefellow of equity,  
  Claud. Is she not a modest young lady?
  ANTONY. I did not think to draw my sword 'gainst Pompey;

    You grave but reckless senators, have you thus
    After life's fitful fever he sleeps well.
  CASCA. So can I.
  FRENCH KING. So please you.
    like foolish justices: he, by conversing with them, is turned
    Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love.
    Shall I, for love, speak treason to thy face?
    They are inclin'd to do so.
    bought his doublet in Italy, his round hose in France, his bonnet
    Nay, if you stare, we shall hear more anon.
    To send for Titus Lartius, it remains,
    By day or night,
    Which never ceaseth to enlarge itself
    That I should questionless be fortunate.
    I'll come by Naples. Draw thy sword. One stroke
  CRANMER. I humbly thank your Highness
    This you should pity rather than despise.

    Leonato.
  SHEPHERD. So she does any thing; though I report it
    I am no idle votarist. Roots, you clear heavens!
  MRS. PAGE. Fare you well, sir.  [Exit CAIUS]  My husband


    my father is sick; albeit I could tell to thee- as to one it
    Though war nor no known quarrel were in question,
    Was nothing less than bloody tyranny.
    And let go by the actor.
      wars!
    The name of Prosper; it did bass my trespass.
             Cleopatra's majesty,
    And I do wish your honours may increase
  ANGELO. [Aside] She speaks, and 'tis
    Valiantly vanquish'd. Now my spirit is going
    To part so slightly with your wife's first gift,
    Sure he that made us with such large discourse,
    And so should you, to love things nothing worth.
    Nor mother, wife, nor England's counted queen.
  CELIA. Herein I see thou lov'st me not with the full weight that I
    This prison where I live unto the world
  CASSIO. Iago hath direction what to do;
    While he, renowned noble gentleman,
  BOYET. Here comes a member of the commonwealth.
    and chapeless; with two broken points; his horse hipp'd, with an
  Fal. Did I, Bardolph?
     And these same crosses spoil me. Who are you?

  KING EDWARD. The Duke! Why, Warwick, when we parted,
    thou art to post after with oars. What's the matter? Why weep'st
    in the morning, and so good morrow, Peto.
  MOTH. By a familiar demonstration of the working, my tough signior.
  Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
  Good sir, draw near to me, I'll speak to him.
    O, ho!
  BRABANTIO. My daughter! O, my daughter!
    And do you now strew flowers in his way
    And thus unbraced, Casca, as you see,
    I say again there is no English soul
  SUFFOLK. May be he hears the King
  PROLOGUE. If we offend, it is with our good will.
  Ham. [aside] Nay then, I have an eye of you.- If you love me, hold
  QUEEN. Then whither he goes thither let me go.
    no, though it were as virtuous to lie as to live chastely.
    If I did take the kingdom from your sons,
    But let them hear what fearful words I utter.
    What is he for a fool that betroths himself to unquietness?
    Pardon me, Julius! Here wast thou bay'd, brave hart,
  And sure, unless you send some present help,
  Mess. He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio.
  SEBASTIAN. Yet he would be king on't.
    To conquer France, his true inheritance?
     To be oppos'd against the warring winds?
  HERMIONE. Who is't that goes with me? Beseech your highness
    Though he divide the realm and give thee half
London. The palace
    their left legs, and not presume to touch a hair of my mastcr's  
    Orsino's mistress, and his fancy's queen.
  APEMANTUS. Ho, ho! I laugh to think that babe a bastard.
    The day almost itself professes yours,
    What violent hands can she lay on her life?
  THIRD GROOM. 'Twill be two o'clock ere they come from the
  HOLOFERNES. You have put me out of countenance.
    Within the house, your mistress is at hand;
  LIGARIUS. But are not some whole that we must make sick?
    Thou hast stol'n that which, after some few hours,
  AJAX. I shall cut out your tongue.
    And not have strew'd thy grave.
    One of my place in Syria, his lieutenant,
  Ham. Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man
                    [CHARLES and the rest give tokens of fealty]
    Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.


    Ere the leviathan can swim a league.
    Of my dug and felt it bitter, pretty fool,
  ARMADO. I do adore thy sweet Grace's slipper.
  FIRST SENATOR. So, your opinion is, Aufidius,
  AARON. Why, are ye mad, or know ye not in Rome

                                                        A bell rings.
  PHILO. Sir, sometimes when he is not Antony,
    Close by the ground, to hear our conference.
    Be judg'd by subject and inferior breath,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    gentleman that I have so often met in the forest. He hath been a
    Against this cruelty fight on thy side,
    Foix, Lestrake, Bouciqualt, and Charolois;
    So early waking- what with loathsome smells,
  PAGE. Why, this passes, Master Ford; you are not to go loose
    Your daughter here the princes left for dead,
    You are attaint with faults and perjury;
    To show the love and duty that I bear you
  KING HENRY. Ay, Margaret; my heart is drown'd with grief,
  SPEED. She that you gaze on so, as she sits at supper?
    For that our kingdom's earth should not be soil'd
    God keep all vows unbroke are made to thee!
                            Enter Albany.
    This done, see that you take no longer days,
    But that's all one: omittance is no quittance.
                         Enter Lucianus.
    Would I had known no more! But she must die-
    Nay, come, let's go together.  
    And they shall say when Richard me begot,
    Sir Richard Kikely, Davy Gam, Esquire;
    I am sorry I must never trust thee more,  
    Pour out the pack of matter to mine ear,
    The article of your oath, which you shall never
  BRUTUS. You see how he intends to use the people.
  Fool. Which they will make an obedient father.
    and thou knowest he is no starveling. Tut! there are other
  COUNTESS. Alas! and would you take the letter of her?
    Made him give battle to the lioness,
    Two noble partners with you: the old Duchess of Norfolk
    Thy stomach, pleasure, and thy golden sleep?
    By law of nature and of nations, 'longs
  For locking me out of my doors by day.
  CLITUS. I'll rather kill myself.
    Have hent the gates, and very near upon
  ORLANDO. I am glad of your departure; adieu, good Monsieur
Lobby before the Council Chamber
  HUBERT. Go, stand within; let me alone with him.
  NORFOLK. Do you think, my lords,
    I will not do them wrong; I rather choose
    a health for that anon.
    If we be not, show us the hand of God
    So oft it chances in particular men
    corrupt a saint. Thou hast done much harm upon me, Hal- God
  By how much of me their reproach contains.
    And so obsequious will thy father be,
                         Enter JAQUES
  DERCETAS. I say, O Caesar, Antony is dead.
    For I am sorry that with reverence
              Enter Lodovico, Desdemona, and Attendants.
  FIRST SERVANT. Directitude? What's that?
    Shallow, and another gentleman, from Frogmore, over the
  These blenches gave my heart another youth,
    And young affection gapes to be his heir;
  QUICKLY. You shall have-An fool's-head of your own. No,
    My care is loss of care, by old care done;

  blows, and so is an ass.
    Sirrah, lead these gentlemen
    To consummate this business happily.
    And she shall be my love, or else my queen.
    remedy.
  Yet who knows not conscience is born of love?

         Enter Lodovico, Montano, Cassio carried in a chair,
  BASSIANUS. Ay, noble Titus, and resolv'd withal
    You must be godfather, and answer for her.
    of hair; they call themselves Saltiers, and they have dance which

  Bora. I think I told your lordship, a year since, how much I am in
    In further evil?
    It was your pleasure, and your own remorse;
  Before a joy proposed behind a dream.
  Rey. My lord, I have.

     Edgar-
  Corn. Get horses for your mistress.
  IAGO. If it be that, or any that was hers,
    And I in such a poverty of grace,
  ANGELO. In most uneven and distracted manner. His actions show much
  MALVOLIO. I think nobly of the soul, and no way approve his
    I speak not this in estimation,
    Arthur of Britaine, yield thee to my hand,
  Reg. The messengers from our sister and the King
  BERTRAM. My lord, I neither can nor will deny
THE END
  Rom. O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!
    And with my sword I'll keep this door safe.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Out on thee, villian! Wherefore
    This speak I, lords, to let you understand,
    That you are like to Sir Vincentio.
    Teach you our princess English?
  ARIEL. Is there more toil? Since thou dost give me pains,
    I think it is. And doth affection breed it?

    The freezing hours away? We have seen nothing;
    That Angelo's a murderer, is't not strange?
    To prey on nothing that doth seem as dead.
  ALENCON. How now, my lords? What, all unready so?
  BIANCA. Let's hear. O fie! the treble jars.  
    of hares, are they not monsters?
  MOWBRAY. There is a thing within my bosom tells me
    Upon what meat doth this our Caesar feed
    Wherein I liv'd the greatest prince o' th' world,
    steal well? O for a fine thief of the age of two-and-twenty or
    Against thy seat: both young and old rebel,
    presence must be the whip of the other.
    And we are grac'd with wreaths of victory.

    It did come to his hands, and commands shall be executed.

  DESDEMONA. O, banish me, my lord, but kill me not!
    her. She bears the purse too; she is a region in Guiana, all
    The jewel in my dower, I would not wish
    To see thy Antony making his peace,
    journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated
  tiring; the other, that at dinner they should not drop in his
    hate him deadly, she would love him dearly. The old man's
    talent.
           Enter LOVELL
    And therefore am I bold and resolute.                 Exeunt
    For such a warped slip of wilderness
  LYSANDER. Now she holds me not.
    Of our proceedings kept the Earl from hence.
  VIOLA. I warrant thou art a merry fellow and car'st for nothing.
  LAUNCE. With my master's ship? Why, it is at sea.
    Is all too heavy to admit much talk.
    my part, she is my kinswoman; I would not, as they term it,
  VALERIA, friend to Virgilia

  GREMIO. Stay, Officer; he shall not go to prison.


    Look, as I blow this feather from my face,
  KING PHILIP. O fair affliction, peace!
    I stuck my choice upon her, ere my heart  
    Capitulate against us and are up.
  IAGO.                          Nay, but he prated
  For certain ducats; he with none return'd.
  BERTRAM. Good morrow, noble Captain.
    And on this north side win this cape of land;
    To send in to your wife. My suit to her
      Hark, hark! the lark at heaven's gate sings,
  DUKE. O, death's a great disguiser; and you may add to it. Shave
    Till thou the lie-giver and that lie do he
  CASSIUS. O, look, Titinius, look, the villains fly!
  APEMANTUS. So, so, there!
  LORD. Take him up gently, and to bed with him;
    What doth move you to claim your brother's land?

  Prince. Thou sayest well, and it holds well too; for the fortune of
    Quite over-canopied with luscious woodbine,
    I'll make you quiet; what!- Cheerly, my hearts!  
    for God defend but God should go before such villains! Masters,
  CONSTABLE. To horse, you gallant Princes! straight to horse!
  IMOGEN. Not he, I hope.

    Sometime a keeper here in Windsor Forest,
  FIRST SERVANT. Ay, and it makes men hate one another.
  Kent. A sovereign shame so elbows him; his own unkindness,
  PATROCLUS. Your answer, sir.
  AUMERLE. Where is the King?
    You chose her; then I'd shriek, that even your ears
    are most of them means and bases; but one Puritan amongst them,
    Whom I unnaturally shall disinherit.
    Shame on himself! for my desert is honour;
  CLARENCE. My brother's love, the devil, and my rage.

    we talk of were return'd again. This ungenitur'd agent will
    Take therefore shipping; post, my lord, to France;

  DUCHESS. What means this scene of rude impatience?
    The meagre cloddy earth to glittering gold.
    is 'music with her silver sound' because musicians have no gold
ACT V. SCENE I.
  DUKE. I do constantly believe you. The time is come even now. I
  BERTRAM. All's one to him. What a past-saving slave is this!
    But what your jealousies awake, I tell you
    Which he hath left so shapeless and so rude.
  Fool. Sirrah, you were best take my coxcomb.
    To th' dulling of my spirits; sit down and rest.


  FRENCHMAN. I have seen him in France; we had very many there could
    not for your lordship's respect.
    A very noble youth. Mark.
    And often up and down my sons were toss'd
    With a most false effect; and I the truer
    Give me one poor request.
    What does this mean, my lord?
  KING. Sir, I will pronounce your sentence: you shall fast a week
    Which all this while had bled; and now he fainted,
    A greater crack. The round world
    am afeard there are few die well that die in a battle; for how

  Hot. Who shall say me nay?
  PEMBROKE. and BIGOT. Our souls religiously confirm thy words.
    Rather to wonder at the things you hear
    What, can so young a man begin to prick?
    What if this mixture do not work at all?
    Smile heaven upon this fair conjunction,
  BRUTUS. What, thou speak'st drowsily?
                                       [QUEEN and LADIES retire]
              Being all to dolours turn'd?
    No less to have done so; let me infold thee
    Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
Enter two SENATORS With VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, VALERIA, passing over the stage,

DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
                                                         Exeunt.
  GHOST OF GREY.  [To RICHARD]  Think upon Grey, and let
    How he did seem to dive into their hearts
  MENENIUS. Fie, fie, fie!
    Grace of the Duke, revenges to your heart,
     By this had thought been past.- Alive or dead?
    master had Mistress Anne; or I would Master Slender had
    Rome and the righteous heavens be my judge
    will make a complimental assault upon him, for my business
  FLAVIUS. Alack, my fellows, what should I say to you?
     Most barbarous, most degenerate, have you madded.
    From action and adventure?
    Than on the torture of the mind to lie
    it. [Exit MALVOLIO] Now you see, sir, how your fooling grows old,
  CASCA. I know not what you mean by that, but I am sure Caesar fell
  CROMWELL. I am glad your Grace has made that right use of it.

  LUCIUS. I have slept, my lord, already.
  SECOND MESSENGER. In Kent, my liege, the Guilfords are in
 Exit
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Howsoe'er 'tis strange,
  TITINIUS. He lies not like the living. O my heart!
    forth?
    Her and her blind boy's scandal'd company
    England?
  KING EDWARD. But Warwick's king is Edward's prisoner.
    With Rivers, Vaughan, Grey; and so 'twill do
    Or pricket sore, or else sorel; the people fall a-hooting.
    This is the hole where Aaron bid us hide him.
  CAIUS. Fe, fe, fe fe! ma foi, il fait fort chaud. Je m'en vais a
  REIGNIER. Upon thy princely warrant I descend
  CLOTEN. There be many Caesars
  CALIBAN. Lo, how he mocks me! Wilt thou let him, my
    Conduct me to mine host. We love him highly,

    A place whereto you'll go?
    Taste grief, need friends: subjected thus,
    On bloody courses, the rude scene may end
  TRANIO. He is my father, sir; and, sooth to say,
    niece; look you how his sword is bloodied, and his helm more
  PROVOST. Come hither, sirrah. Can you cut off a man's head?
    It strains me past the compass of my wits.
  TOUCHSTONE. Of a certain knight that swore by his honour they were
  SPEED. 'Item: She is curst.'
  Fool. Prithee, nuncle, tell me whether a madman be a gentleman or a

    You and your crafts! You have crafted fair!
  TWO GAOLERS
    With pow'rful policy strengthen themselves
    Her vestal livery is but sick and green,
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
    And he from forage will incline to play.  
    Thou shak'st thy head, and hold'st it fear or sin
    Being mounted and both roused in their seats,
  LUCIUS. And that he will and shall, if Lucius live.
  And to the most of praise add something more,
    (Whose wrongs in us God pardon!) did set forth  
    And might not gain so great a happiness
    Prince for striking him about Bardolph.
    Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
    the Marquis of Montferrat?
    Figur'd quite o'er with burning meteors.
    Their royal blood enchaf'd, as the rud'st wind
    To make me blest or cursed'st among men!
    Rain sacrificial whisperings in his ear,

    Give me the gown. Where is thy instrument?
  Mer. Tut! dun's the mouse, the constable's own word!
    Thou then look'dst like a villain; now, methinks,
    The clergy ill example.
  KING. Hence, sirs, away.  
    Though justice be thy plea, consider this-
    Our targes undinted.
    Shall thy good uncle and thy brother Lucius
  Kent. In your own kingdom, sir.
    And so to Tripoli, if God lend me life.
    part about you blasted with antiquity? And will you yet call
            Blow, blow, thou winter wind,
  Of princes shall outlive this powerful rhyme,
  And was my own fee-simple, not in part,
    Thou hast a traitor in thy presence there.
    The end of war's uncertain; but this certain,
     villain! Unnatural, detested, brutish villain! worse than
    Mark how they whisper. Urge them while their souls
    I'll to my rest.
     Thou shouldst have said, 'Good porter, turn the key.'
    That knew the stars as I his characters-
  LIEUTENANT. Poole!

  FLUELLEN. It is well.
    and flourish with the highest. Therefore 'tis not amiss we tender

    To save a paltry life and slay bright fame,
  BERTRAM. Well, we cannot greatly condemn our success.
    Upon his follies. Never did I hear
    Stay, the King hath thrown his warder down.
  Hot. We'll fight with him to-night.
    Of the most pious Edward with such grace
                                             [They stand aside.]
    It is a business of some heat. The galleys
    This chaos, when degree is suffocate,
  SOOTHSAYER. Here, my good lord.
    Unbuckling helms, fisting each other's throat-
  LEPIDUS. Noble friends,
  FIRST OUTLAW. And I for such-like petty crimes as these.
  KATHERINA. They sit conferring by the parlour fire.
    your two affirmatives, why then, the worse for my friends, and
    I would have him poisoned with a pot of ale.
    Hear me, you wrangling pirates, that fall out
    By this so sicken'd their estates that never  
    Of any promise that hath pass'd from him.
    Should lose their names, and so should justice too.
             Enter the FRENCH POWER and the ENGLISH LORDS
  PORTIA. Go draw aside the curtains and discover
  WARWICK. I wonder how the King escap'd our hands.
             On the dank and dirty ground.
  JULIA. If you turn not, you will return the sooner.
    Thou wouldst have told this tale for virtue, not
    his brains dash'd out with a Grecian club; yet he did what he
    Day, yield me not thy light; nor, night, thy rest!
  ACHILLES. Peace, fool.
    what I seek, show no colour for my extremity; let me for
    Her father will be angry.
    whereupon the world increases, and kindreds are mightily
    My worth unknown, no loss is known in me;
    Upon whose grave thou vow'dst pure chastity.
    No harm by it, though the gods hear, I hope
    And thereby hangs a tale.' When I did hear
    Among the nettles at the elder-tree
  ROSALIND. [To DUKE] To you I give myself, for I am yours.
  ROSALIND. The Duke my father lov'd his father dearly.
  CELIA. Give me audience, good madam.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    To smile at scapes and perils overblown.
  Tyb. Romeo, the love I bear thee can afford
SCENE 4.
    Into the trunks of men. Thy currish spirit
    Thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead;
  LAFEU. He's a good drum, my lord, but a naughty orator.  
    Dine with my father, drink a health to me.
  EVANS. He's welcome.                                   [Sings]
    Forgot your oath to us at Doncaster;
    For the main soldier; whose quality, going on,
    Pistol; come, Bardolph. I shall be sent for soon at night.
The Roman camp
    My learn'd and well-beloved servant, Cranmer,
  OTHELLO.                               Will you walk, sir?
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  Host. Say, what thing? what thing?
  TIMON. Tell out my blood.
    Even with such life of majesty- warm life,
  Hot. I can no longer brook thy vanities.
    My mind's not on't; you are too hard for me.
                                              [Exit an Officer.]
     Cassio!

<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  THIRD WITCH. Sister, where thou?
    Than one on's ears to hear it? Proceed, Cominius.
    Th' endeavour of this present breath may buy
    Shall I stay here to do 't? No, no, although
  Pet. Then will I lay the serving-creature's dagger on your pate.
  BEROWNE. You must not be so quick.
    You sooth'd not, therefore hurt not. But your people,
    That many things, having full reference
            Quoth she, 'Before you tumbled me,
    can tell.
    Like workmen. I'll example you with thievery:
    With striving less to be so; lesser had been
  IACHIMO. With all my heart.                             Exeunt
  IAGO.                            What name, fair lady?
    thousand nothings with, should be once heard and thrice beaten.
  KING JOHN. Bear with me, cousin, for I was amaz'd
  
    Kendal green came at my back and let drive at me; for it was so
    He has betray'd your business and given up,
    Beheld them, when they lighted, how they clung
    To be adopted heir to Frederick.
    More learned than the ears- waving thy head,
    To-day how many would have given their honours
  IACHIMO. Sir, my circumstances,
    Have told me, I being by, that I should kill him?
  OBERON. There lies your love.
    'Tis old but true: Still swine eats all the draff.      Exit
  ABBOT OF WESTMINSTER                  LORD MARSHAL
                                 Exeunt KING, QUEEN, and SUFFOLK
  CLEOPATRA. Say 'tis not so, a province I will give thee,
    And let young Arthur, Duke of Britaine, in,
  Con. Off, coxcomb!
    And so it is received. Now, pious sir,  
  WARWICK. And so do I. Victorious Prince of York,
  KING HENRY. A friend.
    Than stamps in gold, or sums in sealed bags;
    knowing no burden of heavy tedious penury. These Time ambles
  MARCUS. Yes, and will nobly him remunerate.
      Meet what I would have well, and it destroy,
                            Enter ISABELLA
    Whom you have banish'd does exceed you an.
  APEMANTUS. I, that I was



  BRUTUS. Yet, countrymen, O, yet hold up your heads!
Enter DIOMEDES and A SERVANT
    de fingres, et de nails.
    How he hath drunk, he cracks his gorge, his sides,
Enter the KING with a supplication, and the QUEEN with SUFFOLK'S head;
  PEMBROKE. This once again, but that your Highness pleas'd,
     But let his disposition have that scope
  Laer. My necessaries are embark'd. Farewell.
                             throng after him, smiling and whispering
  Lear. Did I not, fellow?
    To monarchize, be fear'd, and kill with looks;
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Hold, Clifford! do not honour him so much
    For what doth cherish weeds but gentle air?
  BOY. Il me commande a vous dire que vous faites vous pret; car ce
  Fal. I would 'twere bedtime, Hal, and all well.
    For I have neither wit, nor words, nor worth,
    That war against your own affections
  FALSTAFF. While I was there.
  Nurse. Now God in heaven bless thee! Hark you, sir.  
    I think him so, because I think him so.
    What says the golden chest? Ha! let me see:
    For bearing arms, for stirring up my subjects,
    The natural gates and alleys of the body,

      Curan, a courtier.
    Walks, like contempt, alone. More of our fellows.  
    Fit for the mountains and the barbarous caves,
  CORIOLANUS. Away!

    trick of it?

  Pedro. As Hector, I assure you; and in the managing of quarrels you
    His servant live, and will his vassal die.
    Poor house, that keep'st thyself!
    Nor, princes, is it matter new to us
    'Let us make head.' It was your pre-surmise
  SLENDER. Ay, that I do; as well as I love any woman in
    And therefore certainly it were not good
    and I'll break your knave's pate.
    thieves kissing.
    Hast thou of me as she is for a wife.
                                                 [Exit Antonio.]
    Hiding the grossness with fair ornament?
    With winged haste to the Lord Marshal;
    first affection; his unjust unkindness, that in all reason should
SCENE II.
    Compell'd these skipping kerns to trust their heels,
  From heaven to hell is flown away.
  Prince. What say'st thou, Mistress Quickly? How doth thy husband?
    That, laps'd in time and passion, lets go by
    Within my sword's length set him; if he 'scape,  

  Friar. Arise; one knocks. Good Romeo, hide thyself.
    And never gives to truth and virtue that
    I will bring in the Empress and her sons,
    And their true sovereign whom they must obey?
SCENE II.
    My manly eyes did scorn an humble tear;
    Hercules have turn'd spit, yea, and have cleft his club to make
  Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,
    gold for thee.
    Exeunt
    An undergoing stomach, to bear up
    Cries 'Come' to him that instantly must die.
    He swung about his head and cut the winds,
    Alas, how can we for our country pray,
  BUCKINGHAM. O, Nicholas Hopkins?  
  SICINIUS. What do ye talk?
    Let them say more that like of hearsay well,
    Dread prince of plackets, king of codpieces,
    Wish me partaker in thy happiness
    And what to your sworn counsel I have spoken

  BUCKINGHAM. I read in's looks
    And offer me disguis'd in sober robes
  HELENA. What more commands he?
    Our most persisted deeds.
  Reg. Good sir, to th' purpose.
    Go with your impositions, I am yours
    When inward joy enforc'd my heart to smile!
    The sum is paid, the traitors are agreed,
    I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins
    Bedford, if thou be slack I'll fight it out.
    the Duke. You know the character, I doubt not; and the signet is
    When he sees me go back one foot or flee.             Exeunt
    In all my writings. Go with me, and see
    That I and greatness were compell'd to kiss-  
  GLOUCESTER. Never came poison from so sweet a place.
  AUTOLYCUS. Not he alone shall suffer what wit can make heavy and  
  ROSALIND. 'Tis he; slink by, and note him.
    To wait, said I? To wanton with this queen,
    Or Edward's soft and pitiful like mine.

  CELIA. Something browner than Judas's.
    His will is most malignant, and it stretches
  FALSTAFF. What is the gross sum that I owe thee?
    The noble Thanes do bravely in the war,

  'Truth needs no colour with his colour fixed,
    Here is my throne, bid kings come bow to it.  
    She lov'd me well deliver'd it to me.
  HELENA. What two things?

    You give away this hand, and that is mine;
  JOHN. I see them! I see them! There's Best's son, the tanner of
    When I have heard your king's desert recounted,
    Our Romeo hath not been in bed to-night.
  CYMBELINE. New matter still?
  MARSHAL. [To an officer] Go bear this lance to Thomas,
    Nor shall not, when my fancy's on my play.
    And that the lean abhorred monster keeps
    On serious business, craving quick dispatch,
   Consideration like an angel came
    Her name is Portia- nothing undervalu'd
    Misfortune to my ventures, out of doubt,
Another part of the plain
     Had not concluded all.- He wakes. Speak to him.
    Giving full trophy, signal, and ostent,
  DESDEMONA. Can you inquire him out and be edified by report?

    Let fall thy lance. Despair and die!
  ARTHUR. O, this will make my mother die with grief!
  MRS. PAGE. Is there not a double excellency in this?
  CONSPIRATORS. Let him die for't.
    ceremonies of the wars, and the cares of it, and the forms of it,
    plague of all cowards! Let them speak, If they speak more or less
  Pedro. Come, you shake the head at so long a breathing;

    No, God forbid that I should wish them sever'd
  ROSALIND. Though it be pity to see such a sight, it well becomes
    She I'll swear hath corns. Am I come near ye now?

    There is no boot.
    Humbly entreating from your royal thoughts
    To give my poor host freedom.
     Which even but now, demanding after you,
    Is forth to man his galleys. To the vales,

  FLEANCE. The moon is down; I have not heard the clock.
  BASSET. Crossing the sea from England into France,

  Ham. What, are they children? Who maintains 'em? How are they
  VALENTINE. When would you use it? Pray, sir, tell me that.
    Despite of death, that lives upon my grave
    Make thee the father of their idle dream,
  CLEOPATRA. Indeed?
    The circle of the Ptolemies for her heirs,
    Of youth upon him; from which the world should note
    Gan vail his stomach and did grace the shame
  MRS. OVERDONE. But shall all our houses of resort in the suburbs be
           The pap of Pyramus;
  Pol. The actors are come hither, my lord.

    My falcon now is sharp and passing empty.
    are simple men; we do not know what's brought to pass
  PISTOL. Quiet thy cudgel: thou dost see I eat.
    And scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
    I did upbraid her and fall out with her.
    Of what validity and pitch soe'er,
  Whilst I (my sovereign) watch the clock for you,
    And on his son, young John, who two hours since
    and gone ere you came to Ilium? Helen was not up, was she?
    Hath show'd him gold; my life is spann'd already.
    would perhaps trouble a woman.
    Call'd the brave Lord Ponton de Santrailles;  
    If it were so that our request did tend
    All sects, all ages, smack of this vice; and he
                        at another, with hers
  ALEXANDER, servant to Cressida
  BASTARD. Bell, book, and candle, shall not drive me back,
  THERSITES. Agamemnon is a fool to offer to command Achilles;
      within] So-
    Of those gross taunts that oft I have endur'd.
  IAGO. Hast stol'n it from her?
    As 'tis to laugh at 'em. My mother, you wot well
  CRESSIDA. With millstones.  
  GAOLER. So please you, madam,

  KING RICHARD. Know'st thou not any whom corrupting
  FORD. And as wicked as his wife?
  LEPIDUS. I am not so well as I should be, but I'll ne'er out.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    name fairly set down in studs, and here and there piec'd with
    tonight with a harlotry, and thither will I go to him. He knows
    They are the ground, the books, the academes,
    For, on their answer, will we set on them,
    Shine out, fair sun, till I have bought a glass,
    So full-replete with choice of all delights,
    thus to get your love- 'Hic steterat' and that Lucentio that
    And keep you in the rear of your affection,  
    took her for.
    We three are but thyself, and, speaking so,
    Tears show their love, but want their remedies.
  HIPPOLYTA. I love not to see wretchedness o'er-charged,
    Were I but where 'tis spoken.
    mad humour of love to a living humour of madness; which was, to
  Ber. How now, Horatio? You tremble and look pale.

    And burn him with their tapers.
                                           Exeunt all but IMOGEN
    A load would sink a navy-too much honour.
    Your eyes, which hitherto have home in them,

    here; now he shall see his own foolery.
    Which Salique, as I said, 'twixt Elbe and Sala,
    I here do give thee that with all my heart
    Twelve several times, and I have nightly since
    I will not choose what many men desire,
    I love him well; he is an honest man.
    For even the breath of what I mean to speak
    To-day will I set forth, to-morrow you.


    Until a king be by, and then his state
    Sound all the lofty instruments of war,
  Fool. O nuncle, court holy water in a dry house is better than this
     Upon his party 'gainst the Duke of Albany?
  BOY.             As duly, but not as truly,
    But, mighty lord, this merry inclination
  ORLANDO. Are you native of this place?

    Might'st easiliest harbour in? Thou blessed thing!
    Come, side by side together live and die;
                     Enter POLIXENES
  AUTOLYCUS. Neither.

  Both one and other he denies me now.
    But slow in speech, yet sweet as springtime flowers.
    Upon the hills adjoining to the city
                    Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER
    Your children yet unborn and unbegot,

    Within the earth; and, therein laid-there lies
    me that brought your mind, I fear she'll prove as hard to you in

    Against what man thou com'st, and what thy quarrel.
  CLEOPATRA. So it should be, that none but Antony
    Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
    Is crept into the bosom of the sea;
    Commend my best obedience to the Queen;
    But you'll be secret?
    That stopp'd by me to breathe his bloodied horse.
    He tells us Arthur is deceas'd to-night.
  HELENA. My lord your son made me to think of this,
    Let's mock them still, as well known as disguis'd.
  SICINIUS. Mark you this, people?
    This night intends to steal away your daughter;
    the south, the guts-griping ruptures, catarrhs, loads o' gravel
    To say to me that thou art out of breath?
    It be to do thee service.
    That thou consent to marry us to-day.
    Except, O Signieur, thou do give to me
  JEWELLER. Nay, that's most fix'd.
                                [Drawing and driving PISTOL out]
    Therefore we'll knock.                              [Knocks]
    What majesty should be, what duty is,
    of the lady. I am no fighter. I have heard of some kind of men
  MOWBRAY. So much the worse, if your own rule be true.
    and but one half of what he was yesterday, for the other has half
    neither in time, matter, or other circumstance. Good morrow; for
    And earns a place i' th' story.
     If you will marry, make your loves to me;
    But never tax'd for speech. What heaven more will,
    Before the eye and prospect of your town,
    In life so lifeless as it shows itself.
and others; HERALD, OFFICERS, and BAGOT
    More suffer and more sundry ways than ever,
    Whose white investments figure innocence,
  LADY. We did, so please your Highness.
  WART. Yea, sir.
    My conscience hath a thousand several tongues,  
  MACBETH. O, yet I do repent me of my fury,
    harshly o' th' trumpet's sound; we shall to't presently.
    Shall draw him on to his confusion.

  That followed it as gentle day,
                      Enter a GENTLEMAN
    I know, in honour, O that ever I
    And all combin'd, save what thou must combine
    I once did hold it, as our statists do,

  To seek thy help by beneficial hap.
    stands, by ones, by twos, and by threes. He's to make his
    Confounds the tongue and makes the senses rough.
    Thou hid'st a thousand daggers in thy thoughts,
    appearance of fear, lest he, by showing it, should dishearten his
  ISABELLA. No, none, but only a repair i' th' dark;
    About his marriage, nor my own disgrace,
    What, you look merrily!
  SICINIUS. They say she's mad.
    Shows us but this: I am sworn brother, sweet,
  DEMETRIUS. Abide me, if thou dar'st; for well I wot
  Cor. Then be't so, my good lord. [To the Doctor] How, does the King?
    Got my Lord Chamberlain his liberty.
    What, will you have me, or your pearl again?
        When birds do sing, hey ding a ding, ding.
    Who will of thy arrival be full joyous.
    Would shut the book and sit him down and die.
    Be stirring as the time; be fire with fire;
                        Enter IMOGEN
    Profess'd to him, why, his revenges must
  TIMON. What wouldst do then, Apemantus?
                     Enter Juliet above at a window.
    No care of yours it is; you know 'tis ours.

    And bid the snail-pac'd Ajax arm for shame.
  CAIUS
    Should from yond cloud speak divine things,
  CELIA. O wonderful, wonderful, most wonderful wonderful, and yet
    To be his evidence now.
    Gold strew'd i' th' floor. Here's money for my meat.
  OLIVIA. What manner of man?
  Marg. Nothing I; but God send every one their heart's desire!
    you undertake is dangerous, the friends you have named uncertain,

  CORIN. You have too courtly a wit for me; I'll rest.
    To fust in us unus'd. Now, whether it be
    Arthur of Britaine England's King and yours.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    We have been down together in my sleep,
  DUKE. Then was your sin of heavier kind than his.
  GENERAL OF THE FRENCH FORCES in Bordeaux
    His words are bonds, his oaths are oracles,
    The witch in Smithfield shall be burnt to ashes,
    So Caesar shall not find them.
  OTHELLO. O, ay, as summer flies are in the shambles,  
    concern you near.
    You are there follow'd by a faithful shepherd;
    To do your Grace incessant services.
    As we do air, fast as 'twas minist'red,
    And two Northumberlands- two braver men
    Under the smile of safety, wounds the world;
  LIEUTENANT. Hale him away, and let him talk no more.
    Where is my page? Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.  
  ANGELO. You make my bonds still greater.
  Kent. Alack, why thus?
    any room in a taphouse but I am drawn in.
  OLD ATHENIAN. Lord Timon, hear me speak.

    Delay leads impotent and snail-pac'd beggary.
     Against their father, fool me not so much
    Run from her guardage to the sooty bosom
  COMINIUS. Ay; and you'll look pale

THE TRAGEDY OF TITUS ANDRONICUS
    As it might be perhaps, were I a woman,
    I should not for my life but weep with him,  
    hag.
    Besides, I say and will in battle prove-
  Pol. By th' mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.
  WARWICK. Ay, but the case is alter'd.
  DUMAIN. My loving lord, Dumain is mortified.
  NATHANIEL. I praise God for you, sir. Your reasons at dinner have

    To creep in at mine eyes. Well, let it be.
    'Tis necessary he should die:
    What cursed foot wanders this way to-night
    Come, but one verse.
    Took off her life; this, and what needful else
  Pol. Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
  Ben. Am I like such a fellow?
    All westward, Wales beyond the Severn shore,
  SERVANT. Sir John Falstaff!
    Of thee, which says thus: 'Do my Lord of Canterbury
    Were brought me of your loss and his depart.
    With best advantage will deceive the time
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Were not my doors lock'd up and I shut out?
    for his honour's sake, have one bout with you; he cannot by the
    The unity the King my husband made
  And my sick muse doth give an other place.
  SIR TOBY. Well said, Master Parson.
    If thou rememb'rest not the slightest folly
  Beat. Nay, if they lead to any ill, I will leave them at the next
    But the main article I do approve
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
Scene IV.
    Thou wilt not utter what thou dost not know,
    And thou-
  FIRST SENATOR. Therefore, Timon-
    You gave me this; but take it, sir, again.
    And such a one do I profess myself.
    Verona shall not hold thee. Here she stands
    And charity chas'd hence by rancour's hand;
    Which tired majesty did make thee offer-
  COUNTESS. Wherefore? Tell true.
    Ambitions, covetings, change of prides, disdain,
    And feast and banquet in the open streets
  CAESAR. Shall Caesar send a lie?
    Contend for empire in thee, and thy goodness
    Let no such man be trusted. Mark the music.

  EMILIA. But did you ever tell him she was false?
  KING HENRY. How now, my lords!
    boil'd to death with melancholy.
  GARDINER. Not sound, I say.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  Beat. Will you not tell me who told you so?
  GRANDPRE. Why do you stay so long, my lords of France?
  BASTARD. Brother, adieu. Good fortune come to thee!
    he took leave of my lady and mistress.
    Must rectify our knowledge.
                                           [A charge sounded]
ACT V. SCENE 1
    Now, my Titania; wake you, my sweet queen.
    Woe to her chance, and damn'd her loathed choice!
Britain. CYMBELINE'S palace
       Re-enter ARIEL, loaden with glistering apparel, &c.
    And, daughter, yours.
    Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
  VOLUMNIA. Take my prayers with you.
    same cowardly giant-like ox-beef hath devour'd many a gentleman
  MATE. And so much shall you give, or off goes yours.
    now in first seeing he had proved himself a man.
  BIANCA. Am I your bird? I mean to shift my bush,
    Your soldiers use him as the grace fore meat,
    morrow, Alexander.-How do you, cousin? When were you at Ilium?
            And leave thee in the storm.
             That shall civil sayings show.
    I have begun to plant thee, and will labor
    Look, sirs, if you can find the huntsman out
  Leon. O Fate, take not away thy heavy hand!
    Myself, well-mounted, hardly have escap'd.
    neither; yes, it is so, it is so, it hath the worser sole. This
    In thy uprightness and integrity,  
    in words is a woman's only virtue. I pray thee, out with't; and
                 Enter CLEOPATRA, attended
    then deliver up your pigeons; and then look for your reward. I'll
    Finding the first conceit of love there bred,
  PHILIP. How now, Grumio!
    And make conceive a bark of baser kind
    Unless he take the course that you have done-
  Oph. No, my good lord; but, as you did command,
THE WINTER'S TALE
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Give me no help in lamentation;
  BOTTOM. Enough; hold, or cut bow-strings.               Exeunt

    Thou desperate pilot, now at once run on
    Will cheer me ever or disseat me now.
    And the rich East to boot.
    Had met ill luck?
    Dinner is ready, and your father stays.
  LARTIUS. Thou worthiest Marcius!                  Exit MARCIUS

  SICINIUS. Doubt not
    out of the wheat must needs tarry the grinding.
    Patience is sottish, and impatience does
  RODERIGO. What a full fortune does the thick-lips owe,
with CAPTAINS and soldiers. To them a MESSENGER
  Wor. There is no seeming mercy in the King.
    God for his Richard hath in heavenly pay
  And my next self thou harder hast engrossed,
  BUCKINGHAM. O, you go far!
    For thy best use and wearing.
    entertainment with him if thou stand'st not i' th' state of
    No woman had it, but a civil doctor,
    shall be called to no more payments, fear no more tavern bills,
    A stirring dwarf we do allowance give
    And when they from thy bosom pluck a flower,
RIVERS, GREY, and VAUGHAN, to death
    For you, fair Hermia, look you arm yourself
    another leek in my pocket which you shall eat.
    And as with age his body uglier grows,
    man born in April.
     Full suddenly he fled.
  KING JOHN. The King is mov'd, and answers not to this.
    indistinguishable cur, no.
  But when my glass shows me my self indeed
    On the nice hazard of one doubtful hour?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE

  LORD. Lay't so to his charge;
    Here is no drink. Hark, Marcus, what she says-
    Come, to this gear. You are a good archer, Marcus.
    Your multiplying spawn how can he flatter-

    All losses are restored, and sorrows end.
    And bids thee study on what fair demands
  ENOBARBUS. But she is now the wife of Marcus Antonius.  
    And bid her wipe her weeping eyes withal.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. A parlous boy! Go to, you are too
  ORLANDO. Now, by the faith of my love, I will. Tell me where it is.
    good time.
  GLOUCESTER. A blessed labour, my most sovereign lord.
    To prove it on thee to the extremest point
  LUCENTIO. Mistress, what's your opinion of your sister?  
    For the deposing of a rightful king.
    He little cares for, and a daughter who
  HUBERT. No had, my lord! Why, did you not provoke me?
              Enter the GHOST of HENRY THE SIXTH
    In man as well as herbs- grace and rude will;
    In spending your wit in the praise of mine.
    Do, as a monster, fly my presence thus.
    good Tubal; at our synagogue, Tubal.                  Exeunt
  DUKE. Her husband, sirrah?
  LIGARIUS. Set on your foot,
    Are gone to Bolingbroke, dispers'd, and fled.

    Attendants
        Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more!
    Pieces of gold 'gainst this which then he wore
    Will furnish me. But soft! how many months
    Still we went coupled and inseparable.
  LADY. Who's there that knocks?
                     90
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  DIOMEDES. I cannot, lord; I have important business,
    Therefore, out of thy long-experienc'd time,
    from you.
  KING RICHARD. What is his name?
    Than Jephtha when he sacrific'd his daughter.
  OLIVIA. Smil'st thou?
    To give me hearing what I shall reply.
  BIONDELLO. O, sir, his lackey, for all the world caparison'd like
  BIANCA. Construe them.

  Lear. No, I will be the pattern of all patience;
    'Yea,' quoth he, 'dost thou fall upon thy face?
    Which holds him much to have.
  MAMILLIUS. No, I'll none of you.
    Contagious blastments are most imminent.
    Suffolk concluded on the articles;
    Of mine own eyes.  
    good husband at home, my son and my servant spend all at the
  ANTONY. When I did make thee free, swor'st thou not then
    That I am wise. I must have liberty
  DUCHESS. What, gone, my lord, and bid me not farewell!
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Here's that, I warrant you, will pay them all.
    At my misfortunes? Can thy spirit wonder

    He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound
Enter ARMADO and MOTH, his page
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  Give salutation to my sportive blood?
  AGAMEMNON. Here art thou in appointment fresh and fair,
    And in thy hateful lungs, yea, in thy maw, perdy;
    No hope to have redress? My body shall
    Abus'd extremely, and to cry 'That's witty!'
    Discover where thy mistress is at once,
    foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no fool for fancy, as you
    Come on; thou art granted space.
    Not to affect many proposed matches
  BOYET. A cittern-head.
    At Grecian sword, contemning. Tell Valeria


  SHALLOW. He will make you a hundred and fifty pounds
                                                Flourish. Exeunt
  HOLOFERNES. Ba, pueritia, with a horn added.
    Of all complexions the cull'd sovereignty
    Since arms avail not, now that Henry's dead.
    What colour for my visitation shall I
    Of that we hold an idol more than he?
  Prince. Where are the vile beginners of this fray?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Nay, not sound I pray you.
  LUCIO. A French crown more.
  Peto. How many be there of them?
    Presents that I intend to send them both.
  TRANIO  
    Can lay on nature is a paradise
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    He shall appear in proof.
    life.
    Fie, fie, how wayward is this foolish love,
    And now falls on her bed, and then starts up,
    May she give that?
    Will cut their passage through the force of France,
    Till he faced the slave,
Enter a ROMAN and a VOLSCE, meeting
  I conjure thee by all the saints in heaven.
    The Dauphin Charles is crowned king in Rheims;
  KING HENRY. Then call we this the field of Agincourt,
  LAUNCE. Stop there; I'll have her; she was mine, and not mine,
    That this same child of honour and renown,
SCENE IV.
    d'hand, de fingre, de nails, d'arm, d'elbow, de nick, de sin, de
  Laer. What ceremony else?

    Come, Somerset, we'll see thee sent away.   Flourish. Exeunt
    For your great seats now quit you of great shames.
    How now, Lord Stanley! What's the news?
    Be it ounce, or cat, or bear,
    Without a monument!- bring thee all this;
    'What's the price of this inkle?'- 'One penny.'- 'No, I'll give
    clown, thou perishest; or, to thy better understanding, diest;

    Upon condition I may quietly
    Falstaff's and our meeting, they will at once display to the
    Took it too eagerly. His soldiers fell to spoil,
         Then to Silvia let us sing
  BOYET. What, then; do you see?
SCENE III.
    The imperious churchman; Somerset, Buckingham,

         Unpleasing to a married ear!
    The prescript of this scroll. Our fortune lies
    Your royal fleet far off.  [Aside to ARIEL]  My Ariel,
    Come thou on my side and entreat for me-
  ARTHUR. And will you?
    That I may call thee something more than man,
    Call for our chiefest men of discipline,
  VIOLA. What's she?

    This quarrel would excite? Yet, I protest,
    That presses him from sleep.
  YOUNG CLIFFORD. Foul stigmatic, that's more than thou canst tell.
    Had three times slain th' appearance of the King,
    to health! I humbly give you leave to depart; and if a merry
    Which still should go with Antony.
  Hero. These gloves the Count sent me, they are an excellent
    Therefore be patient, take no note of him.
  SICINIUS. He shall be thrown down the Tarpeian rock
     It pleas'd the King his master very late
    Be not to be a strumpet, I am none.
    cries out 'No more!'; reconciles them to his entreaty and himself
    But I must make fair weather yet awhile,
    money than I'll speak of.  

    How now, my lord? Will the King hear this piece of work?
    as I take it, it is almost day.
    A whining mammet, in her fortune's tender,
    We do instate and widow you withal

    For that her reputation was disvalued
SECOND MERCHANT. By this, I think, the dial points at five;
    Whose beam stands sure, whose rightful cause prevails.
    telling her fantastical lies. And will she love him still for
    Within these three days let me hear thee say  
    will not rejoice so much at the abuse of Falstaff as he will
  HERMIA. With half that wish the wisher's eyes be press'd!
  OCTAVIUS. Now, Antony, our hopes are answered.
    Conjurers and sorcerers, that, afraid of him,
SCENE IV.
    I will believe thou hast a mind that suits
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
                          Enter FIENDS
    Lately attendant on the Duke of Norfolk.
    Welcome, my good friends.
  STEPHANO. How now shall this be compass'd? Canst thou
            Honour, high honour, and renown,
    Shall to the King taste of this action;
  CAMBRIDGE. Never was monarch better fear'd and lov'd
Elsinore. The Castle. Another part of the fortifications.
    And so, proud-hearted Warwick, I defy thee,
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. I do extend him, sir, within himself;
    And in this borrowed likeness of shrunk death
    I shak'd you, sir, and cried; as mine eyes open'd,
  Bene. Then is courtesy a turncoat. But it is certain I am loved of
SCENE III.
    And laid his love and life under my foot;
    With ruffs and cuffs and farthingales and things,
    The arm'd rhinoceros, or the Hyrcan tiger;
  BARDOLPH. God save your Grace!
           Atalanta's better part,
    And keep eternal spring-time on thy face,
    They hail'd him father to a line of kings.
    meet her, as he was appointed, next morning at the temple, and
A street.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    with him if I return; and 't shall go hard but I'll make him a
  CLOWN. Advise you what. you say: the minister is here.
  SPIRIT. Adsum.
  EMILIA. [Within.] I do beseech you
  Prince. Go bear this letter to Lord John of Lancaster,
    Nothing but jollity. The gods themselves,
    As deep as that, though true.
                               Exeunt YOUNG LUCIUS and attendant
  ALONSO. Old lord, I cannot blame thee,
    Hear me, Sir Thomas. Y'are a gentleman  
    Are visibly character'd and engrav'd,
  Cap. God's bread I it makes me mad. Day, night, late, early,  
  ROSALIND. [Advancing] And why, I pray you? Who might be your
  But that wild music burthens every bough,


  
  KING. How fares your Majesty?
     I took it for a man. Often 'twould say
    I may, for some things true wherein my youth
  THISBY.      Asleep, my love?
    His grandfather was Lionel Duke of Clarence,
    For none would strike a stroke in his revenge.
    Yet, for this once, yea, superstitiously,
    O misery on't!- the wise gods seel our eyes,
  Ham. If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry:
  BASSIANUS. Believe me, Queen, your swarth Cimmerian
  ARIEL. Not a soul
  GENTLEMEN. Towards Chertsey, noble lord?
    My discontented peers! What! mother dead!
    I will even take my leave of you and pace softly towards my
  BASTARD. Brother by th' mother's side, give me your hand;
  GLOUCESTER. He that bereft thee, lady, of thy husband
                                      [CHARLES is thrown. Shout]
    Darraign your battle, for they are at hand.  
                                                  EXETER, VERNON
    Desire him not to flatter with his lord,
Scene III.
    an old host that I know is damn'd. If to be fat be to be hated,
    Which I'll not call a creature of thy place,
  CHARMIAN. In each thing give him way; cross him in nothing.
  CAESAR. And what may follow,
           Or my friends, if I should need 'em.

    Amen.                                                   Exit
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY

    Like prisoners wildly overgrown with hair,
    I will most willingly attend your ladyship.
  Queen. I'll warrant you; fear me not. Withdraw; I hear him coming.
    Upon this land a thousand blessings,
    counsel, and understand what advice shall thrust upon thee; else  


    Nay, more, an enemy unto you all,
    In common worldly things 'tis called ungrateful
    Sweet, rouse yourself; and the weak wanton Cupid
    Hath ordain'd to an honourable end,
    O lady, weep no more, lest I give cause
  KING RICHARD. Ratcliff, come hither. Post to Salisbury;
  WARWICK. Here comes the heavy issue of dead Harry.
  CONSTABLE. You have good judgment in horsemanship.
    For Mowbray and myself are like two men
    Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night.
    Before he was what thou wouldst have him be!  
  PHILARIO. I will have it no lay.
           Enter Old Capulet in his gown, and his Wife.
  Alb. This shows you are above,

    a death. I'll ne'er bear a base mind. An't be my destiny, so;

    debuty, t' other day; and, as he said to me- 'twas no longer ago
  CLITUS. What ill request did Brutus make to thee?
    My heart's deep languor and my soul's sad tears.
  COUNTESS. Is this the scourge of France?
  BIANCA. What, master, read you, First resolve me that.
    for love- very near this. I'll speak to him again.- What do you
     Shall top th' legitimate. I grow; I prosper.
    I know you think to dine with me to-day,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    head that he gives entrance to such companions? Pray get you out.
             And this weak and idle theme,
    Which with sweet water nightly I will dew;
    To be direct and honest is not safe.
  Edg. Frateretto calls me, and tells me Nero is an angler in the
  COMINIUS. They are worn, Lord Consul, so

    such a man.
    Castiliano vulgo! for here comes Sir Andrew Agueface.
    When I shall meet him in the court of heaven
    Do not, for one repulse, forgo the purpose
    To frustrate prophecies, and to raze out
some distance from the KING. The BISHOPS place themselves on each side
    For Queen, a very caitiff crown'd with care;
                     99
    A lad of life, an imp of fame;
    Of no allowance to your bosom's truth.  
    jumps upon join'd-stools, and swears with a good grace, and wears
  GOBBO. That is the very defect of the matter, sir.
  EDWARD. Sweet father, do so; set it on your head.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I am an ass indeed; you may prove it
    As you did love, but as you fear'd him.  
    This neighbour air, and let rich music's tongue
  KATHERINA. Of all thy suitors here I charge thee tell
  HASTINGS. Grant that our hopes- yet likely of fair birth-
  DULL. Sir, the Duke's pleasure is that you keep Costard safe; and
  VALERIA. In troth, I think she would. Fare you well, then. Come,
  FALSTAFF. Now comes in the sweetest morsel of the night, and we  
    And yet she'll kneel and pray; I have seen her do't.
    To beat assailing death from his weak legions;
    To grace occasions, let it be our suit
  CLEOPATRA. Quick, quick, good hands.        [Drawing a dagger]
    But like a man he died.
    O, when the King did throw his warder down-
  SICINIUS. Yes- mercy, if you report him truly.
    this.
    [Aside] To my sick soul (as sin's true nature is)
    to one of his company last night at supper- a kind of auditor;  
THE LIFE OF KING HENRY THE FIFTH
  PATROCLUS. What, art thou devout? Wast thou in prayer?
  IRAS. Royal Egypt, Empress!
    This is the letter to your ladyship.

    And brought your prisoner to your palace gate.
    That is thy means to live. Do thou but think
Alexandria. CLEOPATRA'S palace
  IAGO. How is't, brother?
                                                         Exeunt.
  ANTONY. Now, Eros.
    I doubt we should have been too young for them.
  APEMANTUS. So. Thou wilt not hear me now: thou shalt not then. I'll
    Get you home, boy. Come, we stay too long.            Exeunt
    The skies, the fountains, every region near
  LUCIUS. Sir, 'tis your brother Cassius at the door,
  PISANIO. Well then, here's the point:
    Hath married the fair lady.
  Ham. 'Swounds, show me what thou't do.
  Ham. A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and
  Glou. Alack, alack the day!
    The rampant bear chain'd to the ragged staff,
  Bene. With no sauce that can be devised to it. I protest I love
    Would from my forehead wipe a perjur'd note;
    In anything that I do know by her.
    Engenders the black toad and adder blue,
  FIRST FAIRY. Hence away; now all is well.
    Call forth my household servants; let's to-night
  LAUNCE. Why, as black as ink.
    You cannot reason almost with a man
    Which many a good tall fellow had destroy'd
    Might stop our countryman.
Britain; Italy
    you hear him so confidently undertake to do.
  LUCIUS. By heaven, it shall not go!
    That e'er received gift from him.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  Rom. Let me stand here till thou remember it.
    Till Cranmer, Cromwell, her two hands, and she,
    When thou shalt see I'll meet thee to thy cost.
    Lady, give me your hand; and, as we walk,
    you yesternight. There's a franklin in the Wild of Kent hath
         To weed my vice and let his grow!
    Thou blushest, Antony, and that blood of thine
  SUFFOLK. Thus droops this lofty pine and hangs his sprays;
    Depending on their brands.  
    Let him that was the cause of this have pow'r

  DIOMEDES. Be rul'd by him, Lord Ajax.
    My best and freshest men; serv'd his designments
    things in hand, Master Brook! Follow.                 Exeunt
    Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
  CALCHAS, a Trojan priest, taking part with the Greeks

    His wife is in Corioli, and his child  
Exit.
  For some, untucked, descended her sheaved hat,
  DUCHESS. I prithee hear me speak.
     Till it cry sleep to death.
  SECOND SERVANT. Faith, look you, one cannot tell how to say that;
    Thy virtues spoke of, and thy beauty sounded,  
    The mirth whereof so larded with my matter
    Almost forgot my prayers to content him,
  Tybalt, nephew to Lady Capulet.
    Thou wast within a ken. O Jove! I think
    Page.
  EMILIA. [Within.] What, ho! my lord, my lord!
  THIRD ROMAN. A murrain on 't! I took this for silver.
Alexandria. CLEOPATRA'S palace

  BOYET. [Reads] 'By heaven, that thou art fair is most infallible;
  DORCAS.        Whither?
  And that in guess they measure by thy deeds,
  PISANIO. It was: his queen, his queen!

  FLUELLEN. I assure you there is very excellent services committed
  CLOWN. Well, God give them wisdom that have it; and those that are
    To such a sudden flood of mutiny.
    I'll not be tied to hours nor 'pointed times,

                                          [Puts down the skull.]
    If you'll implore it, that will free your life,
    Romans, forget your fealty to me.
    The latest breath that gave the sound of words
    thanks is good enough for such a present.
    And his whole kingdom into desolation.
    That answer to them. Would you, in their serving,
    Against the Volsces, for they had so vilely
  DUKE.                  Let it be so.
    Where I did meet thee once with Helena
    lip of a lion.
    After defunction of King Pharamond,

    Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood;
    That honour sav'd may upon asking give?
  CHARMIAN. O, break! O, break!
  COUNTESS. Why should he be kill'd?
Enter LEONTES, ANTIGONUS, LORDS, and SERVANTS
  MONTANO. What from the cape can you discern at sea?
  LORENZO. Meet me and Gratiano
    Thy condemnation and thy death.
    And what with Owen Glendower's absence thence,  
    King. 'with a child of our grandmother Eve, a female; or, for thy


    Come to redeem me? There's a fearful point!

    If e'er again I meet him beard to beard,
    Share with thy birthright! Love all, trust a few,
    The ruin of the state.
    Upon surmises, all proofs sleeping else
  AUSTRIA. By how much unexpected, by so much
  Is but the seemly raiment of my heart,
    Of that quick spirit that is in Antony.  
    Flight cannot stain the honour you have won;
    pockets.
    right.
    As he that sleeps here swims.
    blackamoor; 'tis all one to me.
  KING EDWARD. Ay, what of that? it was my will and grant;
    No bargains break that are not this day made;
    Look that you love your wife; her worth worth yours.
    So quick bright things come to confusion.
  SOLANIO. Why then you are in love.
    To leave this place. Albeit you have deserv'd
  Edg. Good gentleman, go your gait, and let poor voke pass. An chud
  HOST. What says my bully rook? Speak scholarly and
                  Enter the guard, rushing in
  THESEUS. If we imagine no worse of them than they of themselves,
    Drinking my griefs, whilst you mount up on high.
                 And make and mar
    Therefore I shall beseech you, if you please
  GLOUCESTER. Now, my Lord Hastings and Sir William Stanley,
    Succeed before the younger, I am King.

    And sandy-bottom'd Severn have I sent him
  Doug. That's the worst tidings that I hear of yet.
    Disdain to call us lord; and Picardy
    Tend'ring my person's safety, hath appointed
  Hor. Remember it, my lord!

    Than can yourself yourself yourself in twain divide.
  WARWICK. And when the King comes, offer him no violence.  
    And all the ceremony of this compact
    We give thee for reward a thousand marks,
  CALIBAN. All the infections that the sun sucks up
    That of all things upon the earth he hated
  BOATSWAIN. Down with the topmast. Yare, lower, lower!
    Worth seizure do we seize into our hands,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    If she deny, Lord Hastings, go with him
    Now, music, sound, and sing your solemn hymn.
         But age with his stealing steps
    Pre-occupied with what you rather must do
    Next, Cleopatra does confess thy greatness,
    she died of the biting of it, what pain she felt- truly she makes
    If I but knew him, with my love and duty

    Some wine, ho!
  DOLL. By my troth, thou't set me a-weeping, an thou say'st so.
    I'll play the housewife for this once. What, ho!
    A world of torments though I should endure,
  SUFFOLK. Dead in his bed, my lord; Gloucester is dead.
    Yet art thou slain in him. Thou dost consent
    Of a cut loaf to steal a shive, we know.
    In military rules, humours of blood,
  KING RICHARD. Can sick men play so nicely with their names?
    And cruel Death hath catch'd it from my sight!
    You that survive and you that sleep in fame.
  TROILUS. Is it so concluded?
    largely to many to know what she would have given;
    Shall die a beggar. Ink and paper, Charmian.  
              Enter a GROOM of the stable
    Though enemy, lost aim and could not?
    With one that wants her wits?                Exeunt TRIBUNES
    To tame a shrew and charm her chattering tongue.
  ISABELLA. Yes, he would give't thee, from this rank offence,
  FALSTAFF. Call him in.  [Exit BARDOLPH]  Such Brooks are
    To new remembrance. For full well he knows
     demand out of the letter. If your diligence be not speedy, I
    What hast thou found?  
    Hath wisdom's warrant and the help of school,
    distracts me.


  MESSENGER. All happiness to your honour!                  Exit
                        Enter two LORDS
  FLUELLEN. Look you, if you take the matter otherwise than is meant,
    That commonly rebels. 'Tis a good hand,
    That many have their giddy brains knock'd out.

  MONTGOMERY. Ay, now my sovereign speaketh like himself;
    And see the holy edifice of stone,
    Dealt on lieutenantry, and no practice had
    were not so terrible to the enemy as it is. I were better to be
  SOOTHSAYER. [Reads] 'When as a lion's whelp shall, to himself
    pictur'd. You must either be directed by some that take upon them
    Hark! a retire upon our Grecian part.
  KING JOHN. Tell him, toward Swinstead, to the abbey there.
    your departure hence, it requires haste of your lordship.
    The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
    I talk of you:


    But hold himself safe in his prisonment.


    none will entertain it.

  My mistress made it one upon my cheek;
    Is to be frighted out of fear, and in that mood
    it not grieve a woman to be overmaster'd with a piece of valiant
     And hold your hands in benediction o'er me.
1594
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Thy brothers are condemn'd, and dead by this.
    Thy age confirm'd, proud, subtle, sly, and bloody,  
  ACHILLES. Will you set your wit to a fool's?


    The thick sighs from him; whiles the jolly Briton-


  GLOUCESTER. Amen!  [Aside]  And make me die a good old
  Prince. He is walk'd up to the top of the hill. I'll go seek him.
    Proffers his only daughter to your Grace
  OLIVIA. What kind o' man is he?
  MUSTARDSEED. Mustardseed.
    Why then I suck my teeth and catechize
  ALENCON. Be it so.
    Directive by the limbs.
    Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Nothing at all. It is a high-wrought flood;
    for a leaden dagger, and thy precious rich crown for a pitiful
  CYMBELINE. What wouldst thou, boy?
  IAGO. There's none so foul and foolish thereunto,

    and lechery; but the gout galls the one, and the pox pinches the
  OLIVIA. How does he love me?
  CLOWN. I will show myself highly fed and lowly taught. I know my
    And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
    Then in my pocket, which directed him

ACT V. SCENE I.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    To wring the widow from her custom'd right,
  BEROWNE. It must be done this afternoon.
    End in one purpose, and be all well home
     night- 'tis dangerous to be spoken- I have lock'd the letter in

               A table and flagons of wine on it.  
    Long all of Somerset and his delay.         Exit with forces
  Lear. Let it be so! thy truth then be thy dower!
    That I was cast. And even but now he spake
    Therefore take heed how you impawn our person,
    Tell me, Andronicus, doth this motion please thee?
  PANDARUS. Why, you know, 'tis dimpled. I think his smiling becomes  
     Revenue, execution of the rest,
  Ham. Why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good
Windsor Castle
  OLIVIA. Why, how dost thou, man? What is the matter with thee?
    Th' apprehension of his present portance,
     Our youngest born, I could as well be brought
    This pearl she gave me, I do feel't and see't;
    yellow stockings, and cross-garter'd, even with the swiftness of
    of it: Fortune is an excellent moral.  
  AGRIPPA. What's Antony? The god of Jupiter.
    I am unfit for state and majesty.
  FRENCH KING. We'll give them present audience. Go and bring them.
                  Enter AUMERLE
  Jul. Hist! Romeo, hist! O for a falconer's voice  
  Shallow; and here young Master Slender, that peradventures
    And not dispraising whom we prais'd- therein
    I never prosper'd since I forswore myself at primero. Well,

    Which, touching but my gentle vessel's side,
    Durst not presume to look once in the face.
    toward my wife, I would turn her loose to him; and what
    Guilty, my lord, guilty! I confess, I confess.
  SUFFOLK. Not resolute, except so much were done,
    stinks with eating toasted cheese.
    In some reclusive and religious life,
    with the glanders and like to mose in the chine, troubled with
           Shoots buck and doe;
  THIRD MESSENGER. The news I have to tell your Majesty
     Than stands on any shoulder that I see
    And ere a man hath power to say 'Behold!'
    He fighteth as one weary of his life.
    Because she is something lower than myself,
  Tyb. This, by his voice, should be a Montague.
    To hunt the panther and the hart with me,
    Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
  CLOWN. Not much commendation to them?

    manner of a man to speak to a woman. For the form- in some form.
    filthy rogue.
    And willingly could waste my time in it.
  AGUECHEEK. 'Slight! will you make an ass o' me?
  NESTOR. Ay, my good son.
    How far forth you do like their articles.  

  ROSALIND. Nay, but who is it?
    out o' th' house. Prithee call my master to him.
Exit.
                                 [Exeunt Don Pedro and Claudio.]

  IMOGEN. But that you shall not say I yield, being silent,

  OTHELLO. Devil!                                        Strikes her.
  Dog. Write down that they hope they serve God; and write God first,  
    Any companion in the world but you;
    Of his almighty dreadful little might.
  Marcellus, officer.
  LEWIS. Your Grace shall pardon me, I will not back:
    And for amends to his posterity,
    Deceive more slily than Ulysses could,
     coming forth is thought of, which imports to the kingdom so much
  Edg. Some villain hath done me wrong.
    By duty ruminated.
               Her faults will ne'er be known;
    So-now, methinks, I feel a little ease.
    To whom I am subdu'd, are but light to me,
  WILLIAM STAFFORD. And what of that?
    Barns and gamers never empty;
    Transparent Helena! Nature shows art,
  PROSPERO. As great to me as late; and, supportable
       Flourish. Enter AGRIPPA, CAESAR, With DOLABELLA
  CLEOPATRA. I'll set a bourn how far to be belov'd.
  TIMON. They are fairly welcome.                   Exit SERVANT
    It is a thing I made, which hath the King
  ALCIBIADES. Sound to this coward and lascivious town
    I am to-day i' th' vein of chivalry.
  BASSIANUS. Marcus Andronicus, so I do affy
    Let it not sound a thought upon your tongue

                              [Within: 'Make way there-Caesar!']
  Ham. I pray you.
    Your enemies are many, and not small; their practices
  MOTH. A woman, master.

    Light wenches may prove plagues to men forsworn;
  HASTINGS. My lord, our army is dispers'd already.
    none.
     Edmund, I hear that you have shown your father
     Were like, a better way. Those happy smilets
    And leave his master Antony. For this pains
    law? Do not thou, when thou art king, hang a thief.
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS with the OFFICER
  BOYET. This Armado is a Spaniard, that keeps here in court;
    That which but seems unlike: 'tis not impossible
Enter King and Laertes.
  Pedro. Hath any man seen him at the barber's?
    And father of that chaste dishonoured dame,
  IAGO. My friend is dead, 'tis done at your request;
    A nursery to our gentry, who are sick
  IAGO. I am your own forever.                                Exeunt.
    That thou shalt like an airy spirit go.
  FERDINAND. No;
  Queen. Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
    it is but a shadow's shadow.
    And duty bids defend; t'other again
  SEBASTIAN. Bate, I beseech you, widow Dido.
    The younger then is free, and not before.
  IMOGEN. Why, one that rode to's execution, man,
  ULYSSES. Time hath, my lord, a wallet at his back,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Now, as I am a Christian, answer me
  SIR TOBY. You'll find it otherwise, I assure you; therefore, if you

  MENENIUS. Be calm, be calm.
    fish-like smell; kind of not-of-the-newest Poor-John. A
    Feeds beast as man. The nobleness of life
    Than three great argosies, besides two galliasses,
    And I'll provide his executioner-
    your place and person, generally allow'd for your many
    enemies. And what's his reason? I am a Jew. Hath not a Jew eyes?
    There lives within the very flame of love
    As if the world were all dissolv'd to tears,
    this seven year; 'a goes up and down like a gentleman. I remember
                                  Exeunt PETRUCHIO and PETRUCHIO
            I died whilst in the womb he stay'd
  CHARMIAN. The valiant Caesar!
    For his shrunk shank; and his big manly voice,
    Even to my wish. I have a letter from her
  RICHARD the Second here was hack'd to death;
  SIR TOBY. Excellent wench, say I.
    Muster your wits; stand in your own defence;
  HELENA. I hope, sir, I have your good will to have mine own good
The French camp
    Therefore away, and leave her bravely; go.
                                                       [Exeunt.]
    I thought you would not back again.
    A poor physician's daughter-thou dislik'st
                                            Exeunt PARIS and MENELAUS
  The injury of many a blasting hour,
  A PORTER
  SHALLOW. Well, let us see honest Master Page. Is Falstaff
         Chance as fair and choose as true!
  KING EDWARD. IS Lewis so brave? Belike he thinks me Henry.
  I all alone beweep my outcast state,

  PANDARUS. I cannot choose but laugh to think how she tickled his
    Where I may read who pass'd that passing fair?
    And France, whose armour conscience buckled on,
  Fal. 'Sblood, my lord, they are false! Nay, I'll tickle ye for a
    Is little Cupid's crafty arrow made,
    To make my lady laugh when she's dispos'd,
    Shall to my flaming wrath be oil and flax.
    Will be deceiv'd; for, gentle hearers, know,
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. My gracious lord, entreat him, speak him fair.
  
    Or else come after. I'll away before.

  IACHIMO. Some dozen Romans of us, and your lord-
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    and men are only turn'd into tongue, and trim ones too. He is now
    we ought to look to't.
  KING RICHARD. But now the blood of twenty thousand men
    since when, I'll be sworn, he wore none but a dishclout of
    That ne'er shall dine unless thou yield the crown.  
    thou lik'st her.
  SUFFOLK. Poole?
    Herself the glory of a creditor,
  CASSIUS. Stand, ho!
    A traitor to his God, his King, and him;
  VALENTINE. 'Tis true; for you are over boots in love,
  So that my errand, due unto my tongue,
    And never see the Louvre.
    I'll none of it; hence! make your best of it.
    Bid him suppose some good necessity
    That swore to ride before him to the field.
  DUMAIN. [Reads]
    To be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  OTHELLO. Iago beckons me; now he begins the story.
  She sent for you by Dromio home to dinner.
  ACHILLES. What, am I poor of late?
    If it hath ruffian'd so upon the sea,
    Methinks it sounds much sweeter than by day.
    And then I would no other company.
    The pauses that he makes.
  DUNCAN. No more that Thane of Cawdor shall deceive
  But, too unruly deer, he breaks the pale,
  MARCIUS. They are dissolv'd. Hang 'em!
    Who first rais'd head against usurping Richard,
  EROS. Ay, noble lord.
  WIFE. Never before this day in all his life.
    Win straying souls with modesty again,
     Persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter
    sir, do you mean to stop any of William's wages about the sack he
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    bed, I think he would change places with his officer; for look
    Let us not leave till all our own be won.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Fear me not, man; I will not break away.
  BUCKINGHAM. All good people,
     Why, this would make a man a man of salt,
    We have some old crab trees here at home that will not
  Beat. O Lord, he will hang upon him like a disease! He is sooner
  HUBERT. I am no villain.
    purchas'd as many diseases under her roof as come to-
  TIMON. Were I like thee, I'd throw away myself.
    If thou account'st it shame, lay it on me;
  KATHARINE. O my good lord, that comfort comes too late,
                          Enter musicians  
    I do not speak of flight, of fear of death,
    And chide the cripple tardy-gaited night
    This was an ill beginning of the night.  
    The stairs, as he treads on them, kiss his feet.
    And for those wrongs, those bitter injuries,
  EVANS. It is his five senses; fie, what the ignorance is!
  ALEXAS. Sovereign of Egypt, hail!
  When I was certain o'er incertainty,
1606
  FALSTAFF. I am bound to thee, reverend Feeble. Who is next?
  ROSS. I am so much a fool, should I stay longer,
     Their scanted courtesy.
    And these are of them. Whither are they vanish'd?
    Am I both priest and clerk? Well then, amen.
    Open-ey'd conspiracy
SCENE II.
    Though Argus were her eunuch and her guard.
     Why dost thou lash that whore? Strip thine own back.
    Therefore thy later vows against thy first
  KATHERINA. Too light for such a swain as you to catch;
    Come, Menas.                                          Exeunt
    That would unseen be wicked- is this nothing?
    To do no contrived murther. I lack iniquity
Enter PISANIO reading of a letter
    And sweet revenge grows harsh.
  CLEOPATRA. Dolabella,
    With what his valour did enrich his wit,
      Britaine, the elder brother of King John
    But that necessity so bow'd the state
    In brief, he led me to the gentle Duke,
    And in's spring became a harvest, liv'd in court-
    His name with zealous fervour sanctify.
  PRINCE JOHN. Thine's too thick to shine.
  KING. Your ladyship is ignorant what it is.
    To courtship, and such fair ostents of love
  Kent. Alack, bareheaded?
    coxcomb, is it meet, think you, that we should also, look you, be
  Gent. Who is conductor of his people?
    On greatness' favour, dream as I have done;  
  CATESBY. First, mighty liege, tell me your Highness' pleasure,
    Else, when he is found, that hour is his last.  
    is absent have done this? Ere he would have hang'd a man for the
  Claud. If he be not in love with some woman, there is no believing
    Black and portentous must this humour prove
The plains of Philippi.
    need'st him, there thou shalt find him. Farewell and stand fast.
    So much against the mettle of your sex,
                                   [SATURNINUS reads the letter]
    For those defects I have before rehears'd-
    The virtue that possession would not show us
    For policy sits above conscience.                     Exeunt
    Comes fast upon. Good my brother Troilus,
    But graciously to know I am no better.
  LINCOLN. Very well, my liege.
    Is this thy vow unto my sickly heart.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    In lieu of all thy pains and husbandry.
  PRINCE. Saturn and Venus this year in conjunction! What says th'
    He'll watch the horologe a double set,

    What we can do to him-though now the time
    That take it on you at the first so roundly.
  OTHELLO. Fear not my government.
    You will catch cold, and curse me.
    Good for their meat and safer for their lives.
    rise from her bed, throw her nightgown upon her, unlock her
  MESSALA,      "     "    "
    Can no way change you to a milder form,
  FIRST CITIZEN. Peace, ho!
    That we shall hardly in our ages see
  TRANIO. 'Tis well, sir, that you hunted for yourself;
    is a puppy-dog.
    Lest that it make me so unsound a man

  IAGO. How poor are they that have not patience!
    That this same paper brings you.
    Than they have learnt of me. From Rumour's tongues
    Will have your tongue too. This is a creature,
    her?-Come, draw this curtain and let's see your picture.
    Rather in power than use, and keep thy friend  
    I therefore apprehend and do attach thee
    Why would you be so fond to overcome
    Measure us back to Naples? Keep in Tunis,
    Of your infirmity?
    Hang loose about him, like a giant's robe

    gentleman- as know his youth will aptly receive it- into a most
    To vice you to't, that you have touch'd his queen
    wish'd me. Alone she was, and did communicate to herself her own
    That he may never more false title plead,
    My wife and children's ghosts will haunt me still.
Enter DUKE in his own habit, and Friar PETER
  King Henry the Fourth.
  FALSTAFF. This apoplexy, as I take it, is a kind of lethargy, an't
    From Richard's night to Bolingbroke's fair day.       Exeunt
  SEBASTIAN. If you will not undo what you have done- that is, kill
    take longer time.
    The gods, not the patricians, make it, and
    With fiery quickness. Therefore prepare thyself.
    As you are certainly a gentleman; thereto
  Cor. O my dear father, restoration hang
  PORTIA. What ring gave you, my lord?
  GAUNT. To God, the widow's champion and defence.

Enter DIOMEDES
    Divide themselves between you!
    the stop. A good moral, my lord: it is not enough to speak, but
     No, I'll not weep.
  FIRST SERVANT. My lord, you nod; you do not mind the play.
    With crowns imperial, crowns, and coronets,
    Joint by joint, but we will know his purpose.
    it out, when your brother marries Aliena shall you marry her. I  
  THIRD SERVANT. How, sir! Do you meddle with my master?
  CELIA. Or I, I promise thee.
    As oft as any passion under heaven
  MACBETH. Bring forth men-children only,
    For they that were your enemies are his,
  GRUMIO. Why then the mustard without the beef.
    And general honour.
    Her eyes are grey as glass, and so are mine;
    To see these honours in possession.                   Exeunt
    Upon his neck a mole, a sanguine star;
  CLAUDIO. Fellow, why dost thou show me thus to th' world?
    And why he left your court, the gods themselves,
    On your command.
  Fal. Lay out, lay out.
    let out the prisoners.
    The remedy then born- discover to me  
    before me is nearer to his reverence.
    so strongly as thou speak'st of. I will henceforth eat no fish
    In things right true my heart and eyes have erred,
  GRATIANO. Signior Antonio?
    To make their audit at your Highness' pleasure,
    That hatred is so far from jealousy
  LUCIO. Enough, my lord.
    concerning the disciplines of the war, the Roman wars, in the way
  POSTHUMUS. Over-roasted rather; ready long ago.
  And sick of welfare found a kind of meetness,  
    promise, the gods plague thee, for thou art man! If thou dost
    The grappling vigour and rough frown of war
    And on your finger in the night I'll put
  ORLEANS. You are as well provided of both as any prince in the
  ANTONY. O, fie, fie, fie!

     And my invention thrive, Edmund the base
  BEROWNE. Saint George's half-cheek in a brooch.
      That our devices still are overthrown;
    Began to scold and raise up such a storm
    Say you consent and censure well the deed,
    To greet him and to give him comforts. Sir,
    Why should that name be sounded more than yours?
    Your mother's hand shall right your mother's wrong.
    The last fit of my greatness-good your Graces,
    Is lighted on poor Hastings' wretched head!
Enter the DUKE OF NORFOLK at one door; at the other,
  Look what an unthrift in the world doth spend
  SAY. Tell me: wherein have I offended most?

    Know, sir, that I am call'd Hortensio.
                          Enter MUSICIANS
    Orlando. What do you say, sister?

    Subscrib'd by th' consuls and patricians,
    No earthly mean to save him but that either
    As enemy to the people and his country.
    Some touch of your late business. Affairs that walk-
    Their power, I think, is thirty thousand strong.
    sorry for your niece. Shall we go seek Benedick and tell him of
    Or useful serving-man and instrument

    Set me against Aufidius and his Antiates;
  QUICKLY. Polecats! There are fairer things than polecats,
  SURREY. By my soul,
    Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark
  LE BEAU. The eldest of the three wrestled with Charles, the Duke's
    It doth remember me the more of sorrow;
  PAROLLES. I know not how I have deserved to run into my lord's
    The which if he can prove, 'a pops me out
SCENE II.
    Who look'd full gently on his warlike queen,
    Keeps good old York there with his men of war?
    Where nothing wants that want itself doth seek.
  SHALLOW. Harry the Fourth.


    What, Jessica!- Thou shalt not gormandize
    The fraughting souls within her.
  CYMBELINE. Guiderius had
    And shall our quick blood, spirited with wine,

    Be now produc'd and heard.  
    To stand upon my kingdom once again.
    Sir Thomas Gargrave, hast thou any life?
  LYSANDER. Hang off, thou cat, thou burr; vile thing, let loose,

  DUCHESS. After, Aumerle! Mount thee upon his horse;

    But who comes here?
  Friar. Be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift
    Profaners of this neighbour-stained steel-
  FALSTAFF. Come here, Pistol; stand behind me.  [To SHALLOW]  O, if
    To urge the thing held as a ceremony?
    That I have been your wife in this obedience
    under Mars.
  GONZALO. This Tunis, sir, was Carthage.
    He hath good usage and great liberty;
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Enjoy your mistress, from the whom, I see,
Enter HECTOR and ANDROMACHE
    Her father's liking; which to bring to pass,
   Think, when we talk of horses, that you see them
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Now, what admittance, lord?
London. An ante-chamber in the KING'S palace
     What party I do follow.
  Lord. The King and Queen and all are coming down.
  AMBASSADORS to the King of England
  CROMWELL. Presently
  FIRST GAOLER. You shall not now be stol'n, you have locks upon you;
  Friar. Peace, ho, for shame! Confusion's cure lives not
    That he is open to incontinency.
    To you a charge and trouble. To save both,
    More in their officer, than person. Sossius,
The palace yard
                                         Exeunt BLUNT and others
  ALCIBIADES. How came the noble Timon to this change?
  ORLANDO. Who could be out, being before his beloved mistress?
  PANDARUS. Ha, ha! Alas, poor wretch! a poor capocchia! hast not
     These fourscore years.
    as any stone.
    mirth.
    Now one the better, then another best;
    As you have for Olivia. You cannot love her;
    To serve me last, that I may longest keep
attended on by the DUKE OF BEDFORD, Regent of France,
    That would not let me sleep. Methought I lay

  Edm. This is the excellent foppery of the world, that, when we are
    But heaven hath a hand in these events,
    yours were.
ACT_4|SC_7
  ALCIBIADES. In vain! His service done
    He straight declin'd, droop'd, took it deeply,
ACT III. SCENE 3.
  'Thus merely with the garment of a Grace  
    That yet can do thee office? If thou hast,
    This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
    sweet-fac'd man; a proper man, as one shall see in a summer's
              Swifter than the wand'ring moon.
    On me, whose all not equals Edward's moiety?  
  KING. Plutus himself,
    pack will hold.
  NESTOR. I have, thou gallant Troyan, seen thee oft,
    For he hath found to end one doubt by death
    I would on great occasion speak with you.            Exit Cassio.
    Hugg'd and embraced by the strumpet wind;  
    in that. If a Jew wrong a Christian, what is his humility?  
    Stuffing the ears of men with false reports.
    That weep'st to see me triumph? Ah, my dear,
    Some few odd lads that you remember not.
    your brother, and he hath ta'en you newly into his grace, where  
    I see thy glory like a shooting star
    Now for the honour of the forlorn French!
                         her in his arms
               Enter Hotspur [and Douglas].
  PAROLLES. Who cannot be crush'd with a plot?
    obey this medicine.
  John. I thank you. I am not of many words, but I thank you.
  SPEED. Nay, sir, less than a pound shall serve me for carrying your
    Thou cacodemon; there thy kingdom is.
    And slew your fathers, and with colours spread
    Before the eyes of both our armies here,
    But though we think it so, it is no matter.
    And rather choose to hide them in a net
         And dub me knight.
    To take him in the purging of his soul,
    The mariners all under hatches stowed,


    And where's our lesson, then? Boy, what say you?
  PAGE. Thrice noble lord, let me entreat of you
    That all with one consent praise new-born gawds,
    Let me be counted serviceable. How look I
    Up to a whore, who now are levying
    as oft as he has occasion to name himself, even like those that
  ACHILLES. There's for you, Patroclus.
  Ham. Then will I come to my mother by-and-by.- They fool me to the
  SPEED. Are they not lamely writ?
    For in the marches here we heard you were
    More than he haply may retail from me.
     This gilded serpent [points to Goneril]. For your claim, fair
    Then, if I have much love, I'll give you some.
  That wear this world out to the ending doom.
     Shall never see his pardon; for my state
    We cannot all be masters, nor all masters
    If that it be the work of any hand.
  GOWER. Captain Fluellen, you must come presently to the mines; the  
    I long till Edward fall by war's mischance
    Receiv'd deep scars in France and Normandy?
    I'll die for't but some woman had the ring.
  ENOBARBUS. They have dispatch'd with Pompey; he is gone;
    If I would broach the vessels of my love,
    Lest, over-eying of his odd behaviour,
    What night-rule now about this haunted grove?
    How fares the King and 's followers?
    And often to our comfort shall we find
    It will be for his gentle daughter's sake;
  CELIA. Well, and what of him?
    Been, out of fondness, superstitious to him,
  CLOWN. From below your duke to beneath your constable, it will fit
    High birth, vigour of bone, desert in service,
    Than young Alcides when he did redeem
    write my name.
    Some harlot's spirit! My throat of war be turn'd,
  Samp. A dog of the house of Montague moves me.
  Reg. 'Tis the infirmity of his age; yet he hath ever but slenderly
  SIR TOBY. [Sings] O' the twelfth day of December-
    For which I must not plead, but that I am
  ROSALIND. I prithee, shepherd, if that love or gold
                  Enter DOCTOR CAIUS
  MAECENAS. This in the public eye?
    To those have shut him up; which failing,
    will.
    Their counsel turns to passion, which before
  BISHOP OF ELY
    Th' observ'd of all observers- quite, quite down!
  'Tis promised in the charity of age.
  OTHELLO.                               With all my heart, sir.  
    And did entreat your Highness to this course
    On May-day morning; which will never be.
    as your daughter may conceive. Friend, look to't.
    That he should be my fool, and I his fate.
  Upon thy self thy beauty's legacy?
    Whom zeal and charity brought to the field
    But, teLL me is young George Stanley living.
    O, tell me who it is, for ne'er till now
    Hector bade ask.
  Nothing sweet boy, but yet like prayers divine,
  Beat. Good Lord, for alliance! Thus goes every one to the world but
  A hound that runs counter, and yet draws dry-foot well;
    Scotland hath foisons to fill up your will
    Most bitterly on you as putter-on  
    the foolish and dull and crudy vapours which environ it; makes it  
  PETRUCHIO. Thus have I politicly begun my reign,
    I'll tell thee more of this another time.

            Exeunt TROILUS, AENEAS. and ULYSSES
  KING HENRY. Iden, kneel down. [He kneels] Rise up a knight.
  MOWBRAY. Your Grace of York, in God's name then, set forward.

    Must first induce you to believe- whose strength
    I shall yield up my crown let him be hang'd.
  SECOND LORD. In like manner was I in debt to my importunate
    Look to't, think on't; I do not use to jest.
    The state in inclination of the day;
                    Between the camps
    I speak too long, but 'tis to peize the time,
  For she was sought by spirits of richest coat,
    With these in tidings.
    So long attended thee. If thou wert honourable,
  LUCETTA. What, shall these papers lie like tell-tales here?
    We have your wrong rebuke. Do not believe
    Lionel Duke of Clarence; next to whom
  MENENIUS. How! away!
  FIRST LORD. There's honour in the theft.
    chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this
    Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
  ISABELLA. He hath a garden circummur'd with brick,
    My tale provokes that question. Dear, they durst not,
    You, to remove that siege of grief from her,  
    The flow'r-de-luce being one. O, these I lack
    To pluck down justice from your awful bench,
  OCTAVIUS. So I hope,
    For native blood is counted painting now;

    Heat them, and they retort that heat again
    One of thy eyes and thy cheek's side struck off!
  KING EDWARD. Now, brother of Clarence, how like you our choice
    Approves her fit for none but for a king;
                     [Takes the CHILD from the NURSE, and draws]
    He saw me, and yielded; that I may justly say with the hook-nos'd
    Of divination in our sister work
    Come, Master Shallow; come, son Slender; in.

    And who shines now but Henry's enemies?
    'Gainst all the world will rightfully maintain.
    As, if God please, they shall- my ransom then
Near the camp of COMINIUS
  PAULINA. Not so.
    To start into her face, a thousand innocent shames
    comes in again, seem to condole with her. The dead body is
  YORK. And did he not, in his protectorship,
    These tidings would call forth their flowing tides.
    Shall I twice lose.
  ORLANDO. What, wouldst thou have me go and beg my food,
    The bound of honour, or in act or will

    lambs
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Counsel o' th' war; but at his nurse's tears
    That this fell fault of my accursed sons-
    FENTON]  A kind heart he hath; a woman would run through
  CASSIO. My hopes do shape him for the governor.
Eastcheap. The Boar's Head Tavern.
    Were there a serpent seen with forked tongue
          Enter SALISBURY and TALBOT on the turrets, with
    Was not the Duke of Orleans thy foe?
  CLIFFORD. The first I warrant thee, if dreams prove true.
    and she will die, if he woo her, rather than she will bate one
    That breathes upon a bank of violets,
    With Henry's death the English circle ends;
    side?- the king's. The captive is enrich'd; on whose side?- the
    Upon a laboring day without the sign
  DUKE. Hath he borne himself penitently in prison? How seems he to
    And yonder is the wolf that makes this spoil.
    soldier than in the scholar.
    it be thy first service; go.

Flourish. Enter Caesar, Brutus, Cassius, Casca, Decius, Metellus,
    Share the advice betwixt you; if both gain all,

COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  KING JOHN. We from the west will send destruction
    Shall pay full dearly for this encounter,
    Because thou seest me dote upon my love.
    Love. Yet was Samson so tempted, and he had an excellent

    Were man as rare as Phoenix. 'Od's my will!
    Or hailstone in the sun. Your virtue is
    What is become of her.
  ROSALIND. And so am I for no woman.
    [Aside]  They're here with me already; whisp'ring, rounding,
    And teach lavoltas high and swift corantos,
  SATURNINUS. Come on then, horse and chariots let us have,
    My mother gave it me.
  And life no longer than thy love will stay,
                                                   Exit BELARIUS
  WILLIAM Lord Hastings had pronounc'd your part-
    guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.  
    thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the
  Nurse. Then hie you hence to Friar Laurence' cell;
            And by him seal up thy mind,
    Now I perceive they have conjoin'd all three

    Deliver up the crown; and to take mercy
  EDMUND MORTIMER, EARL OF MARCH

  STEPHANO. Out o' th' moon, I do assure thee; I was the Man
  CHIEF JUSTICE. I am sure he is, to the hearing of anything good.
    And God befriend us as our cause is just!
    And speed must answer't: you must hence tonight.
  OCTAVIUS. So you thought him,
    Upon thy eye-balls murderous tyranny
    Beyond all limit of what else i' th' world,
    Like Amazons, come tripping after drums,
    With purple fountains issuing from your veins!
  NERISSA. Why, shall we turn to men?

  Fal. A plague of all cowards, I say, and a vengeance too! Marry and
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
     Resolve me with all modest haste which way
    It shall advantage more than do us wrong.
    Has a new master-Get a new man.
    As if thou then hadst shut up in thy brain
     her frowning. Now thou art an O without a figure. I am better
    Nor for my manhood, honesty, or wisdom,  
    And spite of spite needs must I rest awhile.
    me in any dishonesty.
    And, in the fortune of my lord your son,
    Brethren and sisters of the hold-door trade,
    Make the Moor thank me, love me, and reward me
    To the last penny; 'tis the King's. My robe,
    Who ever yet could sound thy bottom? find
    My plight requires it. Do not weep, good fools;

  GRUMIO. For he fears none.
  EVANS. No; Master Slender is let the boys leave to play.
    What fool is she, that knows I am a maid
  SALERIO. Not sick, my lord, unless it be in mind;
    I wish'd might fall on me when I was found
    had rather not be so noble as I am; they dare not fight with me,  
    You have the honey still, but these the gall;

    confessing to this man, how Don John your brother incensed me to
  QUEEN. So the poor chicken should be sure of death.
  Edm. Nor is not, sure.
    Of such a winnowed purity in love.
    more than will do me good, for no man's pleasure, I.  
    Fifth, in whose time boys went to span-counter for French crowns,
  JAQUENETTA. With that face?
                     Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
    Is niece to England; look upon the years
    That doth with awe and terror kneel to it!
  PETRUCHIO. Good sooth, even thus; therefore ha' done with words;  
    There's many a gentle person made a Jack.
  SICINIUS. Say you chose him
    This to your Majesty; this to the Queen.
    of the Vapians passing the equinoctial of Queubus; 'twas very
    Delivering o'er to executors pale
    What you have done, before our army hear me.
    The fit and apt construction of thy name,
    Equal with wond'ring. What of her ensues
  CATESBY. God keep your lordship in that gracious mind!
  CLEOPATRA. What, no more ceremony? See, my women!
  CLEOPATRA. Give me my robe, put on my crown; I have
  GONZALO. Beseech you, sir, be merry; you have cause,
    I'll tell him of you.
  Hero. He is of a very melancholy disposition.
    And let us make incision for your love
    And bid her (mark you me?) on Wednesday next-  
  GREMIO. Went they not quickly, I should die with laughing.

  BASTARD. By heaven, these scroyles of Angiers flout you, kings,
  POMPEY. [Aside to MENAS] Say in mine ear; what is't?
    In purchasing the semblance of my soul
  By him not ruin'd? Then is he the ground

  HELENA. Madam, my lord is gone, for ever gone.
  WOLSEY. I know your Majesty has always lov'd her
  BERTRAM. That's all the fault. I spoke with her but once,  
  POSTHUMUS. Your servant, Princes. Good my lord of Rome,
   Save that there was not time enough to hear,
    No, he must die. Be't so. I hear him coming.
  GARGRAVE. I think at the North Gate; for there stand lords.
    Be noble to myself. But hark thee, Charmian!
  DESDEMONA. Well praised! How if she be black and witty?
    But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours,
    for thee. If the gentlewoman that attends the general's wife be
    To Lewis the Emperor, and Lewis the son
    With all his covent, honourably receiv'd him;
  LUCENTIO. And what of all this?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  PANDARUS. Well, she look'd yesternight fairer than ever I saw her
    Be not offended, dear Cesario-
    With open outcry, toward our monument.
    I will away towards Barnet presently

    Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings;
  DIOMEDES. Lives he?
    Of this hard world, my ragged prison walls;
  DUKE. O, 'tis an accident that heaven provides!

    Has friendship such a faint and milky heart
    night, Iago.
    You were of our determination!
      come
    Find this grand liquor that hath gilded 'em?
  GUIDERIUS. Go you to hunting; I'll abide with him.
    Beheld his tears, and laugh'd so heartily
    Thou know'st was banish'd; for one thing she did
    Dead, or asleep? I see no blood, no wound.  
    Even till I shrink with cold, I smile and say
  CALIBAN. As I told thee before, I am subject to a tyrant,
    To engross up glorious deeds on my behalf;
    To answer royally in our defences.
  SICINIUS. This deserves death.
    Lo, at this tomb my tributary tears
    If this austere insociable life
  EROS. Come, sir.                                        Exeunt
  BANQUO. Thanks, sir, the like to you.
    That hath express'd himself in all his deeds
  BASSANIO. This ring, good sir- alas, it is a trifle;
  ARMADO. Of what complexion?
    Will yield us up.
    Do me this right- hear me with patience.
    But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
  FABIAN. Sowter will cry upon't for all this, though it be as rank
    'Tis an ill office for a gentleman,
  BRUTUS. All this? Ay, more. Fret till your proud heart break.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Generals against the Volscians
    Not a word with him but a jest.
  SIR TOBY. His very genius hath taken the infection of the device,
  MENENIUS. The consul Coriolanus.
  REIGNIER. Woman, do what thou canst to save our honours;
  DESDEMONA. Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world?
  KING. Ha! what, so rank? Ah ha!
    pillory for geese he hath kill'd, otherwise he had suffer'd
    Our comfort in the country. We must find
    I'll crop to make a garland for my head.
    against Clement Perkes o' th' hill.
  KING HENRY. An Englishman?
    The which will I-not all so much for love
    The more you beat me, I will fawn on you.  
    Making them lightest that wear most of it;
    Where it was forged, with my rapier's point.
     Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks!
    I fear, the story of his anger. 'Tis so;
    To an untirable and continuate goodness.
    It doth forget to do the thing it should;
  CRESSIDA. Tear my bright hair, and scratch my praised cheeks,
    they come from my niece, and that she's in love with him.
    One o' these maids' girdles for your waist should be fit.
     Would stretch thy spirits up into the air.
  CASSIUS. Shall I entreat a word?                 They whisper.
  BEDFORD. He is as full of valour as of kindness;  

    pless you!
    These are the limbs o' th' plot; no more, I hope.
    Of gracious order, late come from the See
    I'll order take my mother shall not hear.
    And would have armour here out of the Tower,
    my wager rather against your confidence than her reputation; and,
    Which you did shoot the first, I do not doubt,
    His time of fearing death. Stoop, Romans, stoop,
    To qualify in others. Were he meal'd with that
    He was my master, and I wore my life
    Than from it issued forced drops of blood;
    Thy head, thy sovereign; one that cares for thee,
    Goes upright with his carriage. How's the day?
    If they will patiently receive my medicine.

     Bemonster not thy feature! Were't my fitness
  TIMON. Rogue, rogue, rogue!
    That you on my behalf would pluck a flower.
  WILLIAM PAGE, a boy, son to Page
  CLEOPATRA. Nay, 'tis most certain, Iras. Saucy lictors
    That now on Pompey's basis lies along

  CASSIUS. In such a time as this it is not meet

    And overcome us like a summer's cloud,
  Sweets with sweets war not, joy delights in joy:
    But with her most vile principal- that she's
    Than now the English bottoms have waft o'er

  MONTANO. I am for it, lieutenant, and I'll do you justice.
    And do him homage as obedient subjects,
  Thy beauty's form in table of my heart,
    They have it very oft that have it not.
    deeds; or, by the Lord, I will have it in a particular ballad
  VIOLA. Nothing but this- your true love for my master.
    Had nobles richer and more loyal subjects,
    higher, or return again into France?
    Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
  SATURNINUS. Along with me! I'll see what hole is here,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Not all the water in the rough rude sea
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    By the Athenian garments he had on?
  SHALLOW. Here comes fair Mistress Anne. Would I were
            From Leonati seat and cast

    for sounding.
  BASSANIO. If it please you to dine with us.
     That this our court, infected with their manners,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Here comes Boyet, and mirth is in his face.
    inclination; he gives her folly motion and advantage; and
    Whose blood is fet from fathers of war-proof-
  DEMETRIUS. Sit fas aut nefas, till I find the stream
  Glou. I would have all well betwixt you.                 Exit.
  Cor. Be better suited.
    When you were more endear'd to it than now;
  Mar. My good lord!
  PUCELLE. Question, my lords, no further of the case,
    Sound but another, and another shall,
    Go to; have your lath glued within your sheath
    Mark but my fall and that that ruin'd me.
    Therefore use none. Let Romeo hence in haste,
  King. Where is Polonius?
    And so am I, whether I smack or no;
    Wherein- let no man hear me- I take pride,
  CELIA. Do, I prithee; but yet have the grace to consider that tears
  BRITAINE. They bid us to the English dancing-schools
    HORTENSIUS
     Why, the hot-blooded France, that dowerless took
    I marvel that her Grace did leave it out.
    And temper him with all the art I have,  
  THESEUS. True; and a goose for his discretion.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  THIRD CITIZEN. We do, sir; tell us what hath brought you to't.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    When you do find him, or alive or dead,
  SICINIUS. They are near the city?
  HOST. They shall have my horses, but I'll make them pay;
    I'll to the Doctor; he hath my good will,
  GOBBO. I have here a dish of doves that I would bestow upon your
    Of France and England, did this king succeed;
    But whether 'twas the coldness of the King,
    forget that thou art Jove, the king of gods, and, Mercury, lose
Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
    Under your good correction, I have seen
    As those which sell would give; but you well know
  When I do count the clock that tells the time,
     But where the greater malady is fix'd,
    To know the cause why music was ordain'd!
  Balth. No more words. The clerk is answered.
    We call a nettle but a nettle, and

    Avoid what's grown than question how 'tis born.

    Be my last breathing in this mortal world!
    Envenom him with words, or get thee gone

  RODERIGO. Signior, it is the Moor.

    'Thus didest thou.'
    Anon becomes a mountain. O noble Dauphin,
    That you might well have signified the same
    And cleave to no revenge but Lucius.
    Should choose himself a wife; but as good reason
  Pedro. Yea, or to paint himself? for the which I hear what they say
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  MRS. FORD. Believe me, there's no such thing in me.
    your cousin, that she shall fall in love with Benedick; and I,
    he had formerly wrote to Pompey; upon his own appeal, seizes him.
  Old Man. Madman and beggar too.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Nay, not sure, in a thing falsing.

    To push destruction and perpetual shame
    An 'twere to me, I should be mad at it.
    Thy beauty hath, and made them blind with weeping.
                         Exeunt PAULINA and LADIES with HERMIONE
    swearers enow to beat the honest men and hang up them.

    A merriment than a vice.
  Cor. Nothing.
    But you must trouble him with lewd complaints.
    think we are ruffians, you'll have your daughter covered with a
                     146
    Then, Pistol, lay thy head in Furies' lap.

  VIOLA. A little, by your favour.
    Forgive me, country, and sweet countrymen
    thy strangeness, and tell me what I shall vent to my lady. Shall
    I will not reason what is meant hereby,
    Was there none else in Rome to make a stale
    More, by all mores, than e'er I shall love wife.
  DEMETRIUS. Stay, madam, here is more belongs to her;
    Shall not be sent. My hand will serve the turn,

    Thou dreadful Ajax, that the appalled air
  CLOWN. Thou hast spoke for us, madonna, as if thy eldest son should
  Bal. Full half an hour.
    I heard you say that you had rather refuse
    It is a comforter.
    Farewell, My lord.- Light to my chamber, ho!
    The life, the right, and truth of all this realm
    To raze one title of your honour out.
    determine.
    And then to sleep but three hours in the night
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    an aspect of iron, that when I come to woo ladies I fright them.
    sword will open.
SCENE II.
  PORTIA. I did, my lord.
    His conquering banner shook from Syria
    By being so verbal; and learn now, for all,
  ESCALUS. Ay, sir, very well.
  WOODVILLE.  [Within]  Have patience, noble Duke, I may
    Than your good words. But who comes here?
    And when I rear my hand, do you the like,
    Now, lords, for France; the enterprise whereof
    feasting.
    Till Birnam Forest come to Dunsinane.
    Supposing it a thing impossible-
    Will rain hot vengeance on offenders' heads.
    That e'er I put between your holy looks
    Are wolfish, bloody, starv'd and ravenous.

    What means that hand upon that breast of thine?
    As fat as tame things. One good deed dying tongueless
    And, like the kind life-rend'ring pelican,
Sicilia. On the road to the Capital
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
                                             Leaps in the grave.
    On Fortune's cap we are not the very button.

    Concern me the reporting.
    Fresh expectation troubled not the land
    may as soon as any.
         end whereof PROSPERO starts suddenly, and speaks,
    To save our heads by raising of a head;
  SIR THOMAS LOVELL             SIR ANTHONY DENNY
  CALIBAN. I will have none on't. We shall lose our time,  
  To mar the subject that before was well?
    Has Ventidius and Lucullus denied him?

SCENE:
    My treasure's in the harbour, take it. O,
    My waned state for Henry's regal crown.

    stol'n hence, and left me asleep! I have had a most rare vision.
    Be blind with tears and break o'ercharg'd with grief.
    Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
    not mend his pace with beating; and when you are ask'd this
  TRINCULO. Swum ashore, man, like a duck; I can swim like  
    Hath a great scene. The image of the jest
  BURGUNDY. Doubtless he would have made a noble knight.

  FIRST SENATOR. Sit, Coriolanus, never shame to hear
             And, as I am an honest Puck,
    That in alliance, amity, and oaths,
                                          [Taking up the letter]

    Did point you to buy them, along as you pass'd.
    For emulation hath a thousand sons
  FALSTAFF. There was, mine host, an old fat woman even
    Doth valour's show and valour's worth divide
    A poor soul's patience, all to make you sport.
    Jack Cade proclaims himself Lord Mortimer,
    Didst yield consent to disinherit him,

  FIRST MURDERER. No; he'll say 'twas done cowardly, when
    I have been consul, and can show for Rome
  them; he, sir, that takes pity on decayed men, and give
  Lear. How, how, Cordelia? Mend your speech a little,

  They do but sweetly chide thee, who confounds
  PATROCLUS. The first was Menelaus' kiss; this, mine-
    That same Berowne I'll torture ere I go.
  GONZALO. Whether this be
  KATHERINA. Ay, if the fool could find it where it lies.
  Prince. Lead me, my lord, I do not need your help;
      King John
     I do invest you jointly in my power,
    He leaves his friends to dignify them more:
  PAGE. I think you know him: Master Doctor Caius, the
  CASSIO, lieutenant to Othello
    I'll bring her to the Grecian presently;
    Though not for me, yet for your vehement oaths,
  Fair, kind, and true, is all my argument,
    Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections,
    And follows so the ever-running year
    was this directed to you?
    I should not die but in Jerusalem;
    A cistern for scal'd snakes! Go, get thee hence.
    Remain in't as thou mayst.
  To pay the saddler for my mistress' crupper?
    You with your children will he send before.
    And manage it against despairing thoughts.
    Turning again toward childish treble, pipes
    The very soul, and sweet religion makes
    Should well agree with our external parts?
  KING HENRY. No; nor it is not meet he should. For though I speak it
     word or countenance

    Unripp'dst the bowels of thy sov'reign's son.

    To souse annoyance that comes near his nest.
                                         Exeunt CUPID and LADIES
    Against thy peace. Go with me to my house,
    wear the surplice of humility over the black gown of a big heart.
    Take heed; for he holds vengeance in his hand
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Lord Cardinal,
    O Caesar! These things are beyond all use,
  CAMILLO. I must believe you, sir.
    For what he has he gives, what thinks he shows,
    By shameful murder of a guiltless king
    we make the welkin dance indeed? Shall we rouse the night-owl in
    But you have power in me as in a kinsman.
    But I'll not trust thee.
    All out of work and cold for action!
    To have the due and forfeit of my bond.
    No grief did ever come so near thy heart
    Unworthy as I am, to follow you.
    the spots of thy kindred were jurors on thy life. All thy safety
    Where be your pow'rs? Show now your mended faiths,

  Kent. Was this before the King return'd?
  PISTOL. The heavens thee guard and keep, most royal imp of fame!
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Master, if you do, expect spoon-meat,
  Her grievance with his hearing to divide.
  BERTRAM. Damnable both-sides rogue!
  KING HENRY. Is't so, my lords of England?
  Corn. What was th' offence you gave him?
    Nor sound his quillets shrilly. Hoar the flamen,

  MOTH, page to Armado

ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. An if I have not, sir, I hope you have;
    And they did fight with queasiness, constrain'd,
    and the Duchess on his wedding-day at night.
  SECOND LORD. Away, unpeaceable dog, or I'll spurn thee hence.
    From toe to crown he'll fill our skins with pinches;
    Were lik'ned oft to kingly sepulchres;
    Save how to gall and pinch this Bolingbroke;
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. His daughter, and the heir of's kingdom, whom
    And, whilst thou layest in thy unhallowed dam,
  SLENDER. No, I thank you, forsooth, heartily; I am very
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
    tromperies.

    The setting sun, and music at the close,
    That thought to fill his grave in quiet, yea,
    That sets the word itself against the word!
    laudable attempt either of valour or policy.
    That they do hold their course toward Tewksbury;
    That she's the choice love of Signior Gremio.
SCENE VII.
  Mort. Peace, cousin Percy; you will make him mad.
    Rich scarf to my proud earth-why hath thy Queen
  IAGO. Here at the door; I pray you, call them in.
    As strongly as the conscience does within,
    As you are great, be pitifully good.
    That even our love thirst not come near your sight
  PATROCLUS. Who keeps the tent now?
    Stepp'd before targes of proof, cannot be found.
    To look upon my sometimes royal master's face.
    Come I appellant to this princely presence.

    That died some twelvemonth since, then leaving her  
    Than curse it then. But be it; let it live.
    I'll find Demetrius, and revenge this spite.        [Sleeps]
    Caesar's no merchant, to make prize with you
    The lights burn blue. It is now dead midnight.
                                                       [Exeunt.]
    know you not- 'hic est Sigeia tellus' I trust you not- 'Hic
Padua. Before HORTENSIO'S house
    Fondly brought here, and foolishly sent hence.  
    I shall continue thankful.
  'Small show of man was yet upon his chin;
    But such as I, without your special pardon,
    But if thy arms be to no other end,
    As one incapable of her own distress,
  CAMILLO. He thinks, nay, with all confidence he swears,
           Lawn as white as driven snow;

  BUCKINGHAM. My lord, I claim the gift, my due by promise,
    A thriving issue; there is no lady living
    I think, to liberty. Yet am I better
    Why, then we do our main opinion crush
    master. Anne is a good girl, and I wish-
    And here the bracelet of the truest princess
SCENE:
    He was a kind of nothing, titleless,
    And useth it to patronage his theft.
    So farewell, noble Lucius.
    With purpose presently to leave this war.
  Edg. The foul fiend haunts poor Tom in the voice of a nightingale.
  LADY. How? My good name? or to report of you
    QUINCE, BOTTOM, FLUTE, SNOUT, STARVELING, AND SNUG
  HELENA. Which is he?
    that put quarrels purposely on others to taste their valour;
  CLARENCE. But not as I am, royal.
             Enter KING, LONGAVILLE, DUMAIN, BEROWNE,
  JULIA. That will be music.
  YORK. I will be his conduct.                              Exit
  Rom. With Rosaline, my ghostly father? No.
    Consider, lords, he is the next of blood
    His royal self in judgment comes to hear
  Lear. So young, and so untender?

    To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
    We'll put thee down, 'gainst whom these arms we bear,
  DIANA. I did, my lord, but loath am to produce
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Who would be thence that has the benefit of
  Prince. I'll be no longer guilty, of this sin; this sanguine
               Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace

  ANTONIO. Why, fear not, man; I will not forfeit it;
    To have a godly peace concluded of

  DEMETRIUS. Show me a murderer, I'll deal with him.
    When fearful wars point at me; her son gone,
    To bear her burden, whe'er I will or no,
  DOLABELLA. How goes it here?
                        Enter a MESSENGER

Enter COUNTESS and STEWARD
  THIRD LORD. O, he's the very soul of bounty!
    Let one attend him with a silver basin  
    Your hearts of sorrow, and your eyes of tears.  
    he knock that about yours.
    That e'er devotion tender'd! What shall I do?
    And nature must obey necessity,
    My heart is not confederate with my hand.
  Hero. O god of love! I know he doth deserve
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Sir John, Sir John, I am well acquainted with your
  KING JOHN. Thou idle dreamer, wherefore didst thou so?
    The villainy of our fears.
    To propagate their states. Amongst them all
  PAGE. Yes; and you heard what the other told me?
    Defend the justice of my cause with arms;
    Fie, what a slug is Hastings, that he comes not
    An evident calamity, though we had
  Nurse. I'll lay fourteen of my teeth-
    Have I pluck'd off, to grace thy brows withal.
    And must be buried but as an intent
  KING HENRY. Edward Plantagenet, arise a knight;
    Who laid him down and bask'd him in the sun,
    Accessible is none but Milford way.                   Exeunt

  SECOND PETITIONER. Alas, sir, I am but a poor petitioner of our
    Foul disproportion, thoughts unnatural.
  DEMETRIUS. Quick, come.
    Yet him for this, my love no whit disdaineth,
  Ben. What, art thou hurt?
    On, good Roderigo, I'll deserve your pains.               Exeunt.
    And leave me but the bran.' What say you to' t?



  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Go, sickness as thou art!
     Repose you there, whilst I to this hard house
    them, Diana: their promises, enticements, oaths, tokens, and all

  ROSS. Ay, and brought off the field. Your cause of sorrow
    Extemporally will stage us, and present
    To feed contention in a ling'ring act;
  KATHARINE. The young Dumain, a well-accomplish'd youth,
    There's two of you; the devil make a third,
Enter a MESSENGER
    Remuneration for the thing it was;
    Despite his nice fence and his active practice,
  BANQUO. Hold, take my sword. There's husbandry in heaven,
    That no man hath access by day to her.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Wilt thou, O God, fly from such gentle
  FALSTAFF. There is no remedy; I must cony-catch; I must
    Of no more soul nor fitness for the world
    And, by device, let blockish Ajax draw
    What peremptory eagle-sighted eye
    That robb'd Andronicus of his good hand;
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
      private,
  IAGO. 'Sblood, but you will not hear me.
    you; you have a new mistress.
    reputation. Come, shall we fall to work?
  ANNE. I pray you, sir.
  Claud. O noble sir!
Enter CAMILLO and ARCHIDAMUS
  CASSIUS. I denied you not.
  EMILIA. Thou dost belie her, and thou art a devil.
    Who dares do more is none.

    That longer you desire the court, as well
    there, seek him i' th' other place yourself. But indeed, if you
    He looks like sooth. He says he loves my daughter;
    And wherefore gaze this goodly company
    Although the victor, we submit to Caesar  
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell
    O thou whose wounds become hard-favoured Death,
  BUCKINGHAM. This butcher's cur is venom-mouth'd, and I
    But 'banished' to kill me- 'banished'?

    And stops he now for breath? Well, be it so.
    That from the prime creation e'er she framed.'
    It is most true; true, I have married her;
  KING JOHN. Let it be so. I do commit his youth
    King himself will be a clipper.
    His message ere he come, that a swift blessing
    She bids me think how I have been forsworn
  COUNTESS. Heaven bless him! Farewell, Bertram.            Exit
    And therefore, goaded with most sharp occasions,
             Consign to thee and come to dust.
  PRINCE. Belike then my appetite was not-princely got; for, by my


    [Aside] To say the truth, so Judas kiss'd his master
  More sharp to me than spurring to his side,
    As if thou ne'er walk'st further than Finsbury.
    To th' way she's forc'd to.

SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  Hero. They know that do accuse me; I know none.
    Good heart, what grace hast thou thus to reprove
    If they had swallow'd poison 'twould appear
  That on the ashes of his youth doth lie,
    so far that I have eyes under my service which look upon his
    For this immediate levy, he commands
    To marry Paris. Wednesday is to-morrow.
    End ere I do begin.
  TRINCULO, a jester
    It shall be still thy true love's recompense.
                                  He comes down from the pulpit.
    Which easily endures not article
of the table on the left band, a seat being left void above him,
    His Julia gave it him at his departure.
    Shall I send to thee?
    And tread it under foot with all contempt,
  PANDARUS. How now, how now! How go maidenheads?




    For so your father charg'd me at our parting:
  PAGE. Old, cold, wither'd, and of intolerable entrails?
     Must call discreet proceeding.

    Ay, such a place there is where we did hunt-
  CLEOPATRA. Didst hear her speak? Is she shrill-tongu'd or low?
    I' th' privy chamber?

    act hath three branches-it is to act, to do, and to perform;
  PUCELLE. O, give me leave, I have deluded you.
  MACMORRIS. Of my nation? What ish my nation? Ish a villain, and a
  TIMON. Men daily find it. Get thee away, and take
    To weep their intermissive miseries.
    Like humble-visag'd suitors, his high will.
  PROTEUS. You mistake; I mean the pound- a pinfold.
    Meantime, forget this new-fall'n dignity,
     Our dearest Regan, wife to Cornwall? Speak.
    That warns my old age to a sepulchre.
    Unless I add we are honest.
  OLD ATHENIAN. One only daughter have I, no kin else,
    Was round encompassed and set upon.
    Here is the man, this Moor, whom now, it seems,
    Must by the roots be hewn up yet ere night.
    remember that I am an ass. Though it be not written down, yet
  DICK. Silence!
    This prince in justice seizeth but his own.

    you. You are the weaker vessel, as as they say, the emptier
  LUCENTIO. Ah, Tranio, what a cruel father's he!
    If thou wert the lion, the fox would beguile thee; if thou wert
    me an hypocrite indeed. And what accites your most worshipful
    So I to her, and so she yields to me;
    I'll choke myself- there's all I'll do for you.         Exit
    I'll leave it by degrees. Soft, let us see-
  CORIOLANUS. Like a dull actor now
    Here's to Caesar!  
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Thou baggage, let me in.
    from her.
  DUNCAN. True, worthy Banquo! He is full so valiant,
     Your high-engender'd battles 'gainst a head
     To thank thee for the love thou show'dst the King,
    unmindfull villain,
    For costs and charges in transporting her!
    And stood within the blank of his displeasure
  KATHERINE. Sauf votre honneur, me understand well.

     Do you not love my sister?
    master the author of the servant's damnation. But this is not so:
    I seal upon the lips of this sweet babe.
    To me for justice and rough chastisement;
  POMPEY. Why, very well then; I hope here be truths.


    and their garters of an indifferent knit; let them curtsy with
  Blunt. The circumstance considered, good my lord,
    Sir Thomas Vaughan, prisoners.
    Come weep with me- past hope, past cure, past help!
  King. Dead.
    With the defunct, or sleep upon the dead.
    feathers and fish have no fin.
  How far a modern quill doth come too short,
    chains. No hearing, no feeling, but my sir's song, and admiring

DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    He was quick mettle when he went to school.
    Of great estate, of fresh and stainless youth;
    Which we have not done neither; that, I fear,
    [Reads] 'When as a lion's whelp shall, to himself unknown,
    as it were, too peregrinate, as I may call it.
    At any time to grace my stratagems.
                     TALBOT'S with him
    What will become of me now, wretched lady?
    The generous and gravest citizens
    That now they are at fall, want treasure, cannot  
    Nay, now dispatch; 'twas I that stabb'd young Edward-
  Fal. No; I'll give thee thy due, thou hast paid all there.
    That thou respect'st not spilling Edward's blood.
    Notice of my affair. I humbly thank you.
    stable.

  ORLANDO. You touch'd my vein at first: the thorny point
    A knack, a toy, a trick, a baby's cap.
  MENENIUS. O sir, you are not right; have you not known
    For, being not propp'd by ancestry, whose grace
  TRANIO. Then go with me to make the matter good.
  GLOUCESTER. Now, Governor of Paris, take your oath
    Have I not here the best cards for the game
    I have been begging sixteen years in court-
    But welcome as you are. What shall we do?
    And yet words are no deeds. My father lov'd you:
                         Enter FLUELLEN
    'Twas not my purpose thus to beg a kiss.
    And made a prey for carrion kites and crows
    through and through; my sword hack'd like a handsaw- ecce signum!
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Lucentio, you shall supply the bridegroom's place;
                     Enter HUBERT
    Upon the part o' th' people, in whose power
    fellow; thou didst make tolerable vent of thy travel; it might
    If thou hadst not been born the worst of men,
Enter the two FRENCH LORDS, and two or three SOLDIERS
    I must hear from thee every day in the hour,
  SPEED. But shall she marry him?
  SHEPHERD. This is fairy gold, boy, and 'twill prove so. Up with't,
    No excuse current but to hang thyself.
    To consolate thine ear. Come, night; end, day.  
    Bear it coldly but till midnight, and let the issue show itself.
    not so?
  OTHELLO. But this denoted a foregone conclusion.
             That one body should be fill'd

    And mercy then will breathe within your lips,
    No longer than we well could wash our hands,


    gentleman; he's at it now.
                                         Exeunt LUCIUS and LORDS
  KING EDWARD. Why, so. Now have I done a good day's
    who, being more than sand-blind, high-gravel blind, knows me not.
    And rattles in their hands; upon a sudden,
    O no, good Kate; neither art thou the worse

then four Noblemen bearing a canopy, under which the DUCHESS OF NORFOLK,
    So brainsickly of things. Go, get some water
    You lose a thousand well-disposed hearts,  
  Rom. My dear?
    He liv'd from all attainder of suspects.
    Go on. I'll follow thee.
     Upon the gad? Edmund, how now? What news?
    look'd for at your hand, and this was baulk'd. The double gilt of
  Knowing a better spirit doth use your name,
    Yet if my name were liable to fear,
  Pedro. Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your
     If I would stand against thee, would the reposal
  NORFOLK. O, fear him not!
    And dreadful objects so familiar,
    Your mother was most true to wedlock, Prince;
    Give me some ink and paper in my tent.
    You hold a fair assembly; you do well, lord.
    For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. You do the King my father too much wrong,
  Why dost thou pine within and suffer dearth
    Remembrance of my father-in-law, the Duke,
    Else none at all in aught proves excellent.
    The basin that receives your guilty blood.
  SHALLOW. Why, there spoke a king. Lack nothing; be merry.

    face, for, o' my conscience, twenty of the dog-days now
  GLOUCESTER. Sirrah, leave us to ourselves; we must confer.
     by running. Sa, sa, sa, sa!
  DUCHESS. Art thou so hasty? I have stay'd for thee,
    Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    I shall be furnish'd to inform you rightly
    Wanting the scythe, all uncorrected, rank,
    To threaten me with death is most unlawful.
    And there present yourself and your fair princess-
    Now here he fights on Galathe his horse,
  FIRST OUTLAW. What, were you banish'd thence?
                          SCENE V.
    With his free duty recommends you thus,
                                                 [Exit Servant.]
    He would embrace the means to come by it.
    Would here have kill'd your king, I do forgive thee,
    But all be buried in his gravity.
    brevity.'-
    The specialty of rule hath been neglected;
Bohemia. The SHEPHERD'S cottage
    And, after many length'ned hours of grief,
    Since we can not atone you, we shall see
  Laer. And so have I a noble father lost;
  ANGELO. Well, let her be admitted.                Exit SERVANT
    Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
  Guil. What should we say, my lord?
  ANGELO. Now, good my lord,

    That live and feed upon your Majesty.
  ADRIAN. Yet-
  

Another part of the plain
    Your face, my Thane, is as a book where men

  GUIDERIUS. Cadwal,
    In night, and on the court and guard of safety!
    much of my father in me as you, albeit I confess your coming
    Of the whole state; as of late days our neighbours,
    In undetermin'd differences of kings.
    Now my old arms are young John Talbot's grave.        [Dies]

    The jealous o'er-worn widow, and herself,
    me see.                                              [Reads]
  SALISBURY. It is great sin to swear unto a sin;
    Let us not wrangle. Bid them move away;

  LUCIO. Some report a sea-maid spawn'd him; some, that he was begot
    He should the bearers put to sudden death,
    Your well-defended honour, you must pardon
    Enfranchisement immediate on his knees;
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  QUEEN. Dispatch.                                 Exeunt LADIES
  Bora. Conrade, I say!
  Beat. Do, good friend.

  OTHELLO. O, a thousand, a thousand times. And then, of so gentle a

  MACBETH. What news more?
    Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
    we shall see wilful adultery and murder committed.
    And they have nurs'd this woe in feeding life;
    not look exceeding narrowly to thee.
    Untainted, unexamin'd, free, at liberty.
  PRINCE OF WALES. When I return with victory from the field
    And what remains will hardly stop the mouth
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  BEDFORD. The King hath note of all that they intend,
    With such loud reason to the Cyprus wars,
    spirit of putting down kings and princes- command silence.
  GEORGE. Our hap is lost, our hope but sad despair;
  DIOMEDES.We do; and long to know each other worse.
    As any comer I have look'd on yet
    To keep until your further time of trial.

    Never did captive with a freer heart
    Without her love; for her employ them all;
    Tell thee, Macduff was from his mother's womb
    Than Young Laertes, in a riotous head,
    As to Jove's statue, and the commons made
    respect it is in the fields, it pleaseth me well; but in respect
  SILVIA. What, angry, Sir Thurio! Do you change colour?

    The chidden billow seems to pelt the clouds;
Belmont. The garden
    overflown with a honey-bag, signior. Where's Mounsieur
    Sovereign and pious else, could speak thee out-
    Good expedition be my friend, and comfort  
    And what obscur'd in this fair volume lies
  Where Balthazar and I did dine together.
    So shalt thou sinew both these lands together;
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  FIRST WITCH. All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, Thane of Glamis!
  From hands of falsehood, in sure wards of trust!
  LODOVICO. I thank you. How does Lieutenant Cassio?
    I know it will please them. Hie thee, Captain.
  OFFICER.  [Cries]  All manner of men assembled here in arms
    To York, to present execution.
  ORLANDO. I will.
    unkiss'd.
    As Dian's visage, is now begrimed and black
  HELENA. Not here, sir?
    He dies, and makes no sign: O God, forgive him!
    More sharp than filed steel, did spur me forth;
  IAGO. And may. But, how? how satisfied, my lord?
    Chain mine arm'd neck. Leap thou, attire and all,
    Properly ours.
  MARIA. Ay, our way to be gone.


    four hairs on his chin-
    Commend me to my kinsmen and my son. This is not much.
    hold dear as my finger; 'tis part of it.
    Is overspread with them; therefore my grief
    You must walk by us on our other hand,
    Dead to my husband?
    miscarry, thou wert better thou hadst struck thy mother, thou
  BUCKINGHAM. Your Grace may do your pleasure.
  Fal. Zounds, where thou wilt, lad! I'll make one. An I do not, call

    And long live Henry, fourth of that name!
    We offer fair; take it advisedly.
  Ham. Marry, this is miching malhecho; it means mischief.  
    that-by chance I found. It beggars any man that keeps it.
    Still, 'tis strange
    No man knows whither.
    Looks in a glass that shows what future evils-
    boldly publish her: she bore mind that envy could not but call
  OCTAVIUS. What man is that?
    I'll do thee service for so good a gift.
    Follow your envious courses, men of malice;
    And make a vassal of him.
  PORTIA. Let not that doctor e'er come near my house;
    Who in your thoughts deserves fair Helen best,
  Prison my heart in thy steel bosom's ward,  
  ALEXANDER. The noise goes, this: there is among the Greeks
  Dog. Comparisons are odorous. Palabras, neighbour Verges.
    Were't not that by great preservation
    Puts to him all the learnings that his time
  PROSPERO. 'Tis new to thee.
  Prince. The noble Scot, Lord Douglas, when he saw
    The smell whereof shall breed a plague in France.
    of my beauty, and am I now a subject for them? Let
  DUKE. Let this be done:
    have you?  
    What might be toward, that this sweaty haste  
    For this is he that moves both wind and tide.
  WARWICK. This shall assure my constant loyalty:
  Thy pity may deserve to pitied be.
    To make a second fall of cursed man?
                   Re-enter Othello and Attendants.
  IACHIMO. She writes so to you, doth she?  
     King Lear hath lost, he and his daughter ta'en.
  CAESAR. Go to him, Dolabella, bid him yield;
    Though I lost twenty lives. Help! help, ho! help!
    Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude,
    Have any way your good deserts forgot,  
  ENOBARBUS. Go to, then- your considerate stone!
                    Re-enter TIMON and FLAVIUS  
  DUMAIN. O that I had my wish!
    The white hand of a lady fever thee!
    one woman, one woman shall not come in my grace. Rich she shall

  GRATIANO. Now, by my hood, a gentle, and no Jew.

  FALSTAFF. Ay, marry was it, mussel-shell. What would you
    did nod; and I say 'Ay.'
    Provokes the mightiest hulk against the tide,
  King. The Earl of Westmoreland set forth to-day;
    Wherein my sword had not impressure made
    And draw you into madness? Think of it.
    And pardon us the interruption
    And he's indicted falsely.
    To undeservers.
    For never anything can be amiss
    And makes him roar these accusations forth.
    No profit grows where is no pleasure ta'en;
    That, like an eagle in a dove-cote, I
    Tarry I here, I but attend on death;
    And if thou want'st a cord, the smallest thread
    Might be the be-all and the end-all -here,
    allowed in Vienna.
    neighbours, is grown into an unspeakable estate.
    A prison for a debtor that not dares
  Give her this key, and tell her in the desk
    Of heavenly oaths, vowed with integrity.
  DOLL. I make them! Gluttony and diseases make them: I make them
London. The palace
  And will have no attorney but myself;
    pleaseth their deities to take the wife of a man from him, it  
    Command thy son and daughter to join hands.
LUCE.  [Within]  Have at you with another: that's-when? can you tell?
    Where is our uncle? What's the matter, Suffolk?
  Host. O Jesu, I have heard the Prince tell him, I know not how oft,
    Hath stay'd upon some favour that it loves;
  Who in despite of view is pleased to dote.
    I'll blessing beg of you.- For this same lord,  
    Forever knit.
    come again in his affairs, unless it be to report your lord's
   A thousand pounds by th' year: thus runs the bill.
    And to sun's parching heat display'd my cheeks,
  LAFEU. A scar nobly got, or a noble scar, is a good liv'ry of
    False allegations to o'erthrow his state?
    That he shall shrink under my courtesy.
  Distilled from limbecks foul as hell within,
    Have fought with equal fortune, and continue
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Perdie, your doors were lock'd and you shut out.
    dominator of Navarre, my soul's earth's god and body's fost'ring
    That, if it would but apprehend some joy,
    Half all men's hearts are his.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    And 'gentle Harry Percy,' and 'kind cousin'-

        Through the velvet leaves the wind,
  KING HENRY. Pray thee, go seek him, and bring him to my tent.
    goodness the hugeness of your unworthy thinking. I dare you to
    I'll follow thee, and make a heaven of hell,  
                      [Music of the hautboys is under the stage]  
    In favour was my brother; and he went
    'a go, and again would 'a come. I shall ne'er see such a fellow.
    I will bring the doctor about by the fields. Will it do well?
    And betimes I will, to the weird sisters.
  VOLUMNIA. Titus Lartius writes they fought together, but Aufidius
     you; frame the business after your own wisdom. I would unstate
Rome. Before a gate of the city
  KING EDWARD. Bishop, farewell. Shield thee from Warwick's frown,
    The King my father shall be made acquainted
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. It is; and all the rest are countesses.
  KING JOHN. A good blunt fellow. Why, being younger born,
    welcome to me, that o'erflows such liquor. Ah, ha! Mistress
    No medicine in the world can do thee good.
    And yours, close fighting ere I did approach.
Enter PROTEUS and JULIA
    One of this kind is Cassio.  
    If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do
  Guil. I know, no touch of it, my lord.
    But, I your daughter, he must be my brother?
  BRUTUS. I'll know his humor when he knows his time.
    The lioness had torn some flesh away,


    With hollow poverty and emptiness.  
    portly belly.
  ISABELLA. Ay, with such gifts that heaven shall share with you.
    Having my freedom, boast of nothing else
    cap; I promis'd to strike him if he did; I met this man with my
    court are as ridiculous in the country as the behaviour of the
  KING JOHN. Spoke like a sprightful noble gentleman.
    From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
    To make the blessed period of this peace.
  Doct. Be comforted, good madam. The great rage
    sleep out the thought of it. A prize! a prize!
    Methought all his senses were lock'd in his eye,
    In that Jerusalem shall Harry die.                    Exeunt
  CLARENCE. [Aside to GLOUCESTER] I fear her not, unless she chance
    At last, a little shaking of mine arm,
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Thy self is self-misus'd.
  SPEED. That's because the one is painted, and the other out of all
  OLIVIA. If I do not usurp myself, I am.
                                       soldiers show themselves]
  DUCHESS. What is thy news?
    fortune hath convey'd to my understanding; and, but that frailty
    And straight they shall be here. Sit, and attend.
  LUCIO. [Aside] Ay, well said.
    This is stiff news- hath with his Parthian force
  SALISBURY. It seems you know not, then, so much as we:
  DIANA. Let death and honesty
  Hor. As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;  
                       Enter PYRAMUS
  VALENTINE. To Verona.
    Would he were a Troyan!
    Have we thus met? O, never say hereafter

    To hear from him a matter of some moment;  
    [Sings] For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
  Osw. What dost thou know me for?
  THIRD SERVANT. What, you will not? Prithee tell my master what a
    And many such-like as's of great charge,
    I am the drudge, and toil in your delight;
    Or tear the lions out of England's coat;
  Ghost. Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,

    Bearing the King's will from his mouth expressly?
    Which she must dote on in extremity.

    the town's name where Alexander the Pig was born?

  WESTMORELAND. They know your Grace hath cause and means and might-
  SUFFOLK. Here is my hand the deed is worthy doing.
    by; but mark Troilus above the rest.
        of hunting is heard within. All the fairies run away.
    Thus part we rich in sorrow, parting poor.
ADRIANA. And are not you my husband?
    As that which makes it.
  JULIA. Heavy! belike it hath some burden then.
  CARLISLE. Marry, God forbid!
    And bloody England into England gone,
    I crave no other, nor no better man.
    All hurt behind! Backs red, and faces pale
    enough, and likelihood to lead it; as thus: Alexander died,

    'Twas her two sons that murdered Bassianus;  
     I' th' way toward Dover, do it for ancient love;
    I heard a child cry underneath a wall.
    Anon expect him here; but if she be obdurate
  SHYLOCK. Ay, ay, three thousand ducats.
    I will forget that Julia is alive,
    Some say the lark and loathed toad chang'd eyes;
  PAROLLES. It is indeed. If you will have it in showing, you shall
    you withal, that either you might stay him from his intendment,  
    My work hath yet not warm'd me. Fare you well;
  MESSENGER. My liege, her ear
  Cap. Peace, you mumbling fool!
  LEONTES. Who? Camillo?
    possess'd of this?  
    fellow-fault came to match it.
  Wor. Our house, my sovereign liege, little deserves
  Glou. Were all the letters suns, I could not see one.
    I' th' posture of a whore.
    Did you ever hear the like?
    I faintly broke with thee of Arthur's death;
                       Enter Borachio.
    What dost thou strike at, Marcus, with thy knife?
    Ah, poor our sex! this fault in us I find,
A LOVER'S COMPLAINT
                     Enter LYSANDER and HERMIA

  QUEEN. What, is my Richard both in shape and mind
    And in the shape of Corin sat all day,
ACT I. SCENE I.
    For some new honors that are heap'd on Caesar.
    Lavina is thine elder brother's hope.
    Lucius and I'll go brave it at the court;
  MARSHAL. What is thy name? and wherefore com'st thou hither
  OLIVIA. Cousin, cousin, how have you come so early by this
    Come, I have learn'd that fearful commenting
    Such was the very armour he had on
LUCIANA. Who would be jealous then of such a one?
                       staff, and guides it with feet and mouth]
    I like you, lads; about your business straight;
    I mean our princely father, Duke of York.
    not to call us the many-headed multitude.
    I have three daughters: the eldest is eleven;
  Hot. He does, he does! We'll be reveng'd on him.
  PHILARIO. Was Caius Lucius in the Britain court
  FABIAN. What dish o' poison has she dress'd him!
    By what thou swear'st against the thing thou swear'st,
    Here is my journey's end, here is my butt
    For nothing this wide universe I call,
  MRS. PAGE. What! have I scap'd love-letters in the holiday-time
  LUCENTIO. Basta, content thee, for I have it full.
    T' excel the golden age.  
  PRINCE. My Lord Protector needs will have it so.
  BRUTUS. Now we have shown our power,
  ACHILLES. Ay; what's the matter?
    Here is my hand, and here I firmly vow
  SILENCE. Thereafter as they be- a score of good ewes may be worth
    Before my daughter told me), what might you,
and servants behind
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    In Brittany, receiv'd intelligence
    He watered his new plants with dews of flattery,
  ATTENDANT. They are, my lord, without the palace gate.
  CASSIUS. Is't possible?
    thither, and with our company piece the rejoicing?
    O hateful error, melancholy's child,
    than truth, they are villains and the sons of darkness.
    Than what I know, yet shall the oracle
    to drown her remembrance again with more.
    talk of one Deformed. They say he wears a key in his ear, and a
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  Pedro. And so will he do; for the man doth fear God, howsoever it
  MACDUFF. Make all our trumpets speak, give them all breath,
    It is the cause. Yet I'll not shed her blood,

SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
                KING JOHN in a chair
    Perfumes the chamber thus. The flame o' th' taper
  And maiden virtue rudely strumpeted,
ABBESS. Most mighty Duke, behold a man much wrong'd.
  Prince. Farewell, thou latter spring! farewell, All-hallown summer!
  VALENTINE. To be in love- where scorn is bought with groans,
    And be these juggling fiends no more believed
    I fear my Julia would not deign my lines,

    So were their daggers, which unwiped we found
    That doit that e'er I wrested from the King,
  SHALLOW. Davy!
    divorce under her colours are wonderfully to extend him, be it
    Within Corioli gates, where he hath won,
  AGAMEMNON. [To Troilus] My well-fam'd lord of Troy, no less to you.
     That, if they come to sojourn at my house,
  TIMANDRA. Hang thee, monster!
  SEBASTIAN. As if it had lungs, and rotten ones.
  THIRD LORD. I do conceive.
     Thy life is a miracle. Speak yet again.


    Stafford, take her to thee.
A church.
    To make this bitter to thee.
    By envy's hand and murder's bloody axe.
    free, so kind, so apt, so blessed a disposition, she holds it a
    A leg, a limb-
    What think you of this page, my lord?
  YORK. His eldest sister, Anne,
           Dogs leap the hatch, and all are fled.
    Knowing she will not lose her wonted greatness,

  ANTONY. Hear me, queen:
    Even from darkness.
    neighbouring languages, therefore we must every one be a man of
  THIRD SOLDIER. 'Tis a brave army,
     in Germany.
  ANTONY. Yet they are not join'd. Where yond pine does stand
    An old Italian fox is not so kind, my boy.              Exit
  PLANTAGENET.  [Aside]  Plantagenet, I see, must hold his
    This night's great business into my dispatch,
    Of our great quell?
    Thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee,
  MAMILLIUS. You'll kiss me hard, and speak to me as if
    At blow and thrust, even as again they were
    office and my name!
  MORTIMER. I will, if that my fading breath permit
    extraordinary pleasure.
  METELLUS. Stand fast together, lest some friend of Caesar's
    Most dignifies the haver. If it be,
    Best half of our affair.
    Remember to avenge me on the French.'
  And live; if no, then thou art doom'd to die.
  ALL. Double, double, toil and trouble;

    Prove true, imagination, O, prove true,
                                           Exeunt all but the BASTARD
    had inkling this fortnight what we intend to do, which now we'll
    To make the coming hour o'erflow with joy
    Murder not then the fruit within my womb,
  And doubt not, sir, but she will well excuse
    Whether it was his wisdom or his fear.
    Why the man dies.- I humbly thank you, sir.
    To be so rid o' th' business.                           Exit
  Have of my suffering youth some feeling pity,
    Can scarce entreat you to be odd with him.
    I love thee more and more; think more and more

  WILLIAMS. Ay, he said so, to make us fight cheerfully; but when our
  ARMADO. I give thee thy liberty, set thee from durance; and, in  
  Cracked many a ring of posied gold and bone,
    sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top
  GLOUCESTER. Where is the King?
    Is't night's predominance, or the day's shame,
  A vulgar comment will be made of it,
  CELIA. Yonder, sure, they are coming. Let us now stay and see it.
  MARCUS. O, that delightful engine of her thoughts
  ALCIBIADES. I know thee well;
    That profit's yet to come 'tween me and you.
  MRS. PAGE. Whither go you, George? Hark you.
    Art thou a messenger, or come of pleasure?
    the Lord, lads, I am glad you have the money. Hostess, clap to
    And for my soul, what can it do to that,

    To miseries enough; no hope to help you,

                      Epitaph.
    and methinks there would be no period to the jest, should
  LADY MACBETH. Consider it not so deeply.
  HELENA. Is it yourself?
  FIRST WATCH. Stand close and list him.
    I will yet do you service.
    How God and good men hate so foul a liar.
Enter the KING, GLOUCESTER, BEDFORD, EXETER, WARWICK, WESTMORELAND,
    If my suspect be false, forgive me, God;  
  Do outrage and displeasure to himself?
  Yet the incessant weepings of my wife,
    Upon your heads-is nothing but heart's sorrow,
    My fault, but not my body, pardon, sovereign.
  PISTOL. And I to Ford shall eke unfold
  THIRD CITIZEN. Neighbours, God speed!
    How much salt water thrown away in waste,



  ULYSSES. Now, great Thetis' son!
    But passion lends them power, time means, to meet,
    You stand against anointed majesty!
    When are you married, madam?
    Pisa renowned for grave citizens.
    To comb your noddle with a three-legg'd stool,
    Have knit again, and fleet, threat'ning most sea-like.
    Combine your hearts in one, your realms in one!
    And thou misshapen Dick, I tell ye all
    All these the enemies to our poor bark.
  HOSTESS. O God, that right should thus overcome might!
    For thou hast kill'd the sweetest innocent  
    Let it go all.
    this young man in pawn till I bring it you.
  GAUNT. O, how that name befits my composition!  
  And from the mart he's somewhere gone to dinner;
    fain to hang you.
    Upon him as he pass'd; the nobles bended
    A custard-coffin, a bauble, a silken pie;
  EROS. He's walking in the garden- thus, and spurns

    Farewell, dear father.
    wont, when you laughed, to crow like a cock; when you walk'd, to
    Is to avoid the aim. Therefore to horse;
  SIR TOBY. To anger him we'll have the bear again; and we will fool

    Death, that dark spirit, in's nervy arm doth lie,
    Though France himself and such another neighbour
    The actors are at band; and, by their show,
  PISANIO. What shall I need to draw my sword? The paper
    not seem to understand him, unless some one among us, whom we
    God's light, with two points on your shoulder? Much!

    But say that he or we, as neither have,
    Since last we saw in France?
    your brother's honour, who hath made this match, and his friend's

    The current that with gentle murmur glides,
  FIRST SENTINEL. Sergeant, you shall.           [Exit SERGEANT]
  BUCKINGHAM. May it please you to resolve me in my suit.
    'Tis in my cloak-bag- doublet, hat, hose, all

    Were it to call King Edward's widow sister-  
  TAMORA. This closing with him fits his lunacy.
    And therefore do they cry, though you forbid,
    Lord George your brother, Norfolk, and myself,
    Convert his gives to graces; so that my arrows,
  NURSE. A joyless, dismal, black, and sorrowful issue!
  WARWICK. What would your Majesty? How fares your Grace?
    Till France be won into the Dauphin's hands.

    I'll make my heaven to dream upon the crown,
    Guide thou the sword. [Pindarus stabs him.] Caesar, thou art
    look you, it fits my humour well; but as there is no more plenty
    In presence of the Kings of France and Sicil,
  Beat. Benedictus? why benedictus? You have some moral in this
    With all his trim belonging; and from this time,
    Both they and we, perusing o'er these notes,
  Attendants on Theseus and Hippolyta
    your father; here he comes.

    To be shame's scorn and subject of mischance!
     And quit the house on purpose, that their punishment  
    How churlishly I chid Lucetta hence,
  SUFFOLK. The King, the King!
  OLIVIA. My servant, sir! 'Twas never merry world
  POSTHUMUS. [Aside] What's that to him?

  MESSENGER. My Lord Protector, 'tis his Highness' pleasure
    I have not heard examin'd.
    Against the state and profit of this land;
    We are the Jasons, we have won the fleece.
    Quick Cupid's post that comes so mannerly.
    the wooing of  peascod instead of her; from whom I took two cods,
    The needful bits and curbs to headstrong steeds,
    And wisdom of my Council; but I find none.
  Him in thy course untainted do allow,
    They love and dote on; call him bounteous Buckingham,

    Therefore I lie with her, and she with me,
    I come from Lady Juliet.
                         Enter Falstaff.
SCENE VII.
    Yet never know how that desert should be.
    To be reveng'd on him that loveth thee.
    As for her Greeks and Troyans suff'red death.
    that think they have thee do very oft prove fools; and I that am
    defy all angels, in any such sort, as they say, but in the
  DESDEMONA. I cannot tell. Those that do teach young babes
    Of his bright passage to the occident.
       one door; and a FATHER that hath kill'd his Son, at  
    'hic est' son unto Vincentio of Pisa- 'Sigeia tellus' disguised
    In levity. Since which time of five years

  QUEEN MARGARET. Ay, thou wast born to be a plague to men.
                                          [Laying down a bundle]
    And sin to break it.
    Which owe the crown that thou o'er-masterest?
    And brought me garlands, Griffith, which I feel
    For he hath wit to make an ill shape good,
    To quench mine honour; they would shame to make me
    For strangers to my nature. I am yet
  ESCALUS. Ay, but yet
    I leave out ceremony.
    And though the edge hath something hit ourselves,
  APEMANTUS. I was directed hither. Men report
    Hear me but a word.
  EMILIA. Alas, what does this gentleman conceive?
    The greatness he has got. I hourly learn
    That were the cause of my imprisonment.
    Buckingham?
    Beyond thought's compass, that former fabulous story,
    The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss
  CORIOLANUS. Pray be content.
    Be soon collected, and all things thought upon
    There be moe wasps that buzz about his nose
    The owl shriek'd at thy birth- an evil sign;
    Beating your officers, cursing yourselves,
    If she pertain to life, let her speak too.
  VOLSCE. You take my part from me, sir. I have the most cause to be

  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Qualm, perhaps.
                 Enter Edgar [disguised as a madman].
     And, like a sister, am most loath to call  
    To whom I sued for my dear son's life;
    Our means will make us means.
    In pleasure of my spleen.' And in this fashion

  Crooked eclipses 'gainst his glory fight,
  CLAUDIO. Yes. Has he affections in him
  FORD. Amen.
    With all swift speed you must away to France.
                                        Exit TIMON into his cave
    And thus I clothe my naked villainy
  That thou in losing me, shalt win much glory:  
    I had thought I had had men of some understanding  
    Be free as is the wind. Deliver him, Titus.
    And all those swearings keep as true in soul
    Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.
  ROSALINE. What would these strangers? Know their minds, Boyet.
    But then up farther, and as far as Rome;
  And so tell your master.
    assistance therein.
    then torture my wife, pluck the borrowed veil of modesty
    And, all my powers, address your love and might
  ROSALINE. Well, better wits have worn plain statute-caps.  
    Three foot of it doth hold-bad world the while!
    To be suspected of more tenderness
  THURIO. Sir Proteus, what says Silvia to my suit?
    For strokes receiv'd and many blows repaid
Wales. Near the cave of BELARIUS
  PRINCE. An if they live, I hope I need not fear.
    Have hired me to undermine the Duchess,
    But kings and mightiest potentates must die,

    Record it with your high and worthy deeds.
    And sav'd the treacherous labour of your son.

  Cap. He shall be endur'd.
    Let him be punish'd, sovereign, lest example
  Ham. Why, anything- but to th' purpose. You were sent for; and
    Mann'd with three hundred men, as I have heard;
    Shall I not then be stifled in the vault,
  Ham. I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.
    Of thy assault. If he shall think it fit
    In that behalf which we have challeng'd it;
    [To CRANMER]  Good man, sit down. Now let me see the proudest
    I have a king here to my flatterer.
  LOVELL. I do beseech your Grace, for charity,
    And that hath dazzled my reason's light;
    And sight of men.
  GLOUCESTER. Sirs, take up the corse.
    Being of no power to make his wishes good.
    you, is fixed upon a spherical stone, which rolls, and rolls, and
  FIRST SERVANT. He took good rest to-night;
    And drave great Mars to faction.
    And evils imminent, and on her knee  
    And let him feed.
    With well-appointed pow'rs. He is a man
  ANTONY. Good friends, sweet friends, let me not stir you up
     Thou must not stay behind.

                                    Exeunt CARDINAL and HASTINGS
    And, pretty child, sleep doubtless and secure
    expedition.
    O'ercome you with her show; and in time,

    But that the sea, mounting to th' welkin's cheek,
    His pester'd senses to recoil and start,
  Jul. O, shut the door! and when thou hast done so,
  Pedro. And hath challeng'd thee.
    I will be brief. Your noble son is mad.
    Than my fortunes to me.                           [They sit]

    Nev'r did poor steward wear a truer grief
     Methinks he seems no bigger than his head.
  LIEUTENANT. What, think you much to pay two thousand crowns,
    Think you I can a resolution fetch
    And sold their bodies for their country's benefit,
    But rather one that smiles and still invites
  COSTARD. Such is the simplicity of man to hearken after the flesh.
    It is not so with Him that all things knows,
    Ah, my good lord, I grieve at what I speak,
  PISANIO. My lord,
    'Tis not enough our foes are this time fled,
    My bosom franchised and allegiance clear,
    Of woeful ages long ago betid;

  DUKE. Madam, I am most apt t' embrace your offer.
  FABIAN. O good Sir Toby, hold! Here come the officers.
    As puts me from my faith. I tell you what-
    tainted in's wits.
    Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are
    Mead.
  FRENCH KING. Or else what follows?
    Confounds us. Hark! I laid their daggers ready;
    unpruned, untrained, or rather unlettered, or ratherest  
  FIRST SERVANT. Say thou wilt course; thy greyhounds are as swift
  Cham. At hand, quoth pickpurse.
    Poins! Now shall we know if Gadshill have set a match. O, if men
    To this dead man than you shall see me pay.
    consideration; but he is a devil in private brawl. Souls and
  EGLAMOUR. Madam, I pity much your grievances;
     comes to. He will not believe a fool.
  AENEAS. Stand, ho! yet are we masters of the field.

    Of the great Duke of Buckingham.
    Thy kingly doom, and sentence of his pride.
  DIANA. Monsieur Parolles.
    I have disclaim'd Sir Robert and my land;
    Are dearer than the natural bond of sisters.
    choose what office thou wilt in the land, 'tis thine. Pistol, I  
    tell him I will not fail him at supper; for indeed he hath made
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and ALEXAS

    prisonnier, neamnoins, pour les ecus que vous l'avez promis, il
    Whose youthful spirit, in me regenerate,
    That has been blue, but not her eyebrows.
    Of thee thyself and all thy complices,
  BEROWNE. True, true, we are four.
    Then was I going prisoner to the Tower
    profanation in the world that good Christians ought to have.
LUCE.  [Within]  Faith, no, he comes too late;
    Desiring thee that Publius Cimber may
    The cause of his arrival here in arms;
  POINS. Marry, the immortal part needs a physician; but that moves
    I pray thee sort thy heart to patience;
    By thy revolt, O husband, shall be thought
  Gon. I have been worth the whistle.
    Be ready to direct these home alarms.                 Exeunt
    What you must say, that he shall not perceive
  Fran. My lord?
    the many will be too chill and tender: and they'll be for the
    Persuades me it is otherwise. Howe'er it be,
    As makes the angels weep; who, with our speens,
    Henry the Fifth did sometime prophesy:
    two thousand ducats in Frankfort! The curse never fell upon our
    My prisoners in your Majesty's behalf.
    And not be all day neither.                       Exit LAFEU
    When I shall think or Phoebus' steeds are founder'd
  The villain is o'erraught of all my money.
  AN OLD SHEPHERD, father to Joan la Pucelle
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    I hate it, and desire all good men's love.
    hence.
    A kinder value of the people than
    The fore-recited practices, whereof

    thrasonical brag of 'I came, saw, and overcame.' For your brother
    necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to put
           Larded all with sweet flowers;
    I doubt he be hurt. Fare ye well, good niece.
  KING EDWARD. Where's Richard gone?

    Now like to whelps we crying run away.
    And that the King before the Douglas' rage
      forc'd?
    For never shall you lie by Portia's side
    born a bastard, and thou't die a bawd.
    But now my heavy conscience sinks my knee,
    Is by a newer object quite forgotten.
    You are full of heavenly stuff, and bear the inventory
    The unreasonable fury of a beast.
    Returning were as tedious as go o'er.
    If Venus or her son, as thou dost know,
    epicure.

    And blemish Caesar's triumph. Let him take thee
    And by good testimony, or I'll seize thy life,
    In them I trust, for they are soldiers,
  DESDEMONA. O, fie upon thee, slanderer!
    We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings-
    his sides? Is there yet another dotes upon rib-breaking? Shall we
    palaces. It is a good divine that follows his own instructions; I
  FALSTAFF. Thou mightst as well say I love to walk by the
    Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
    that loves the whore there might send that Greekish whoremasterly
     Alarum. Retreat. Enter Octavius, Antony, Messala,
  TAMORA. Not so, my lord; the gods of Rome forfend
    I prophesied France will be lost ere long.              Exit
    And earthly power doth then show likest God's
    did the first murther! This might be the pate of a Politician,
    write a "never."
     I stumbled when I saw. Full oft 'tis seen
  FALSTAFF. Not so, my lord. Your ill angel is light; but  hope he
    Stain all your edges on me. 'Boy'! False hound!
  HOLOFERNES. Quis, quis, thou consonant?
  ARMADO. Tell me precisely of what complexion.
    Doth that bode weeping?
    Would so offend a virgin, and extort
     Do de, de, de. Sessa! Come, march to wakes and fairs and market
    To grace the gentry of a land remote
    Thou show'st a noble vessel. What's thy name?
  EARL OF SALISBURY
    Was wont to cheer his dad in mutinies?
    Set on towards London. Cousin, is it so?
    this house, if it be not a bawd's house, it is pity of her life,
     As much as child e'er lov'd, or father found;
    Which held thee dearly as his soul's redemption
    And when Love speaks, the voice of all the gods
  CRESSIDA. Prophet may you be!
    Provost.
    But let her rest in her unrest awhile-
    Up to his pleasure, ransomless and free.
    Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
    But now I envy at their liberty,
    parable.
    your chaps again.
    good temperality. Your pulsidge beats as extraordinarily as heart
    Have stuck more terror to the soul of Richard
    As love doth give my heart; no woman's heart
                   Re-enter TAMORA, with
    An age of poverty; from which ling'ring penance
  KING JOHN. Hubert, keep this boy. Philip, make up:

  THURIO. Seem you that you are not?
    To come ashore. Therefore, you men of Harfleur,
  LADY GREY. Why, then mine honesty shall be my dower;
  Ham. A king of shreds and patches!-
       Because thou canst not ease thy smart
       Alarum and retreat. Enter EDWARD, GEORGE, RICHARD
    Leave me, I pray, a little; pray you now;
  ANTONIO. It doth not fit me. Hold, sir, here's my purse;
    To come in to the cry without more help.
    all power from the people, and to pluck from them their tribunes
       crown.
  COUNTESS.  [Reads]  'I have sent you a daughter-in-law; she hath
    He is a soldier fit to stand by Caesar

        SUFFOLK, the EARL OF SURREY, and the LORD
    In quantity equals not one of yours.  

    Something not worth in me such rich beholding
    The well-lost life of mine on his Grace's cure.
  KING RICHARD. How high a pitch his resolution soars!

  They'll go or come. If so, be patient, sister.

    'Achilles hath the mighty Hector slain.'
     Poor naked wretches, wheresoe'er you are,
    For that I saw the tyrant's power afoot.
    jerkin; a pair of old breeches thrice turn'd; a pair of boots
    That I am to pronounce Augustus Caesar-
    You see we have burnt our cheeks. Strong Enobarb
    And many unfrequented plots there are
  And mine I pour your ocean all among.
      of mine.
  Ham. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
  DUKE. There's some in hope.
    In speed to Padua; see thou render this
  CLAUDIO. What but to speak of would offend again.
  GLOUCESTER. Look how my ring encompasseth thy finger,
    Into the lean and slipper'd pantaloon,
    But in it shares some woe, though the main part
    And such an instrument I was to use.
ACT III. SCENE 6.
  Leon. Hath no man's dagger here a point for me?
    My very soul of counsel. Stop my mouth.
    Which is a great way growing on the south,
  PETO
    Here is himself, marr'd, as you see, with traitors.
    signify to you, which is the moral of it, that she is turning,
    or three lords and ladies more married. If our sport had gone  
  FLAMINIUS. No, indeed, he is not.
    so much of my mettle.                                 Exeunt
  MACBETH. Tonight we hold a solemn supper, sir,

  MIRANDA. Abhorred slave,
          Bow themselves when he did sing;
    sailor.
    The name of king? A God's name, let it go.
  MARTIUS. The unhappy sons of old Andronicus,
    I pass'd, methought, the melancholy flood
                     Enter SILVIA, attended
    In that word's death; no words can that woe sound.
    Thy word is current with him for my death,
    So be it; either to the uttermost,  
    They are polluted off'rings, more abhorr'd
  SECOND LORD. O, for the love of laughter, hinder not the honour of
  LUCETTA. A round hose, madam, now's not worth a pin,
    That Lewis of France is sending over masquers
    the age is in, the wit is out.' God help us! it is a world to
    You did supplant your brother Prospero.
  VALENTINE. Ay, boy, it's for love.
    Or thou wert born a fool. Camillo's flight,

    fellow of Rome-I came, saw, and overcame.
    She is not bred so dull but she can learn;
    Towards which advance the war.
  SECOND LORD. [Aside] I wish not so; unless it had been the fall of
    Hast thou no care of me? Shall I abide
  PANDARUS. Fair be to you, my lord, and to all this fair company!
  MENENIUS. What news? what news?

    Without false vantage or base treachery.
    I trembling wak'd, and for a season after
    And fair purgation to the world, than malice,
  CORIOLANUS. Most sweet voices!
    rest of this little kingdom, man, to arm; and then the vital
    Some say he's mad; others, that lesser hate him,
    How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night,
    One vice but of a minute old for one
    Your eyes do make no coaches; in your tears

  OLIVIA. I know his soul is in heaven, fool.
    I mock my name, great king, to flatter thee.
    are. Would we could see you at Corinth!
    Looks bleak i' th' cold wind; withal, full oft we see
    Our shame perpetual. Once a day I'll visit
    This news was brought to Richard but even now.
    Tigers must prey, and Rome affords no prey
Dramatis Personae.
  POMPEY. Pray, Master Barnardine, awake till you are executed, and
    There's some conceit or other likes him well
    Present him eminence, both with eye and tongue:  
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  GLOUCESTER. My other self, my counsel's consistory,
    They dare not show their husbands; their best conscience
    Or wrath or craft may get him.  

  MARIANA. Noble Prince,
    And wash him fresh again with true-love tears.
    Of colour like the red rose on triumphant brier,
  KING RICHARD. Even he that makes her Queen. Who else
    They did amongst the troops of armed men
    By Caius Marcius Coriolanus; whom
  LEONTES. Go, Cleomenes;

  Jul. Wilt thou be gone? It is not yet near day.
    The deeds of mercy. I have spoke thus much
    A Veronesa. Michael Cassio,
  FABIAN. [Reads] 'By the Lord, madam, you wrong me, and the world
  PAGE. Ay, marry, does he. If he should intend this voyage
  SECOND OFFICER. Antonio, I arrest thee at the suit
    This deadly quarrel daily doth beget!
    Were't not that we stand up against them all,  
    Duck with French nods and apish courtesy,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
       Enter, with Drum and Colours, Albany, Goneril, Soldiers.
    To woo so fair a dame to be his wife
    Unless, by not so doing, our good city
Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
  VOLUMNIA. Pray be counsell'd;
    In shape no bigger than an agate stone
    Francis.  
    This case of that huge spirit now is cold.
  SALISBURY. To this effect, before you were new-crown'd,
    As sensual as the brutish sting itself;
    That, ere she sleep, has thrice her prayers said,
    Wooing poor craftsmen with the craft of smiles
    Your Highness bade me ask for it to-day.
    The thing we sue for.
    To th' court of guard; he is of note. Our hour
  SILVIA. By thy approach thou mak'st me most unhappy.
    At my depart I gave this unto Julia.
    To make the sceptre his. These very words
    weary of you.
    Must die for love. 'Twas pretty, though a plague,
    You leer upon me, do you? There's an eye
  Kent. If fortune brag of two she lov'd and hated,  
    Of cruel war. Sixty and nine that wore
  Edg. Before you fight the battle, ope this letter.
    And manacle the berard in their chains,

    Foul-spoken coward, that thund'rest with thy tongue,
    To some forlorn and naked hermitage,
  LAUNCE. Sir, there is a proclamation that you are vanished.
    her love?

    What pledge have we of thy firm loyalty?
    The first time ever Caesar put it on;
    persuading me not to kill the Duke.
    Their needless vouches? Custom calls me to't.
    And let them know both what we mean to do
           The heaven such grace did lend her,

    And in their rage, I having hold of both,
    To cross me from the golden time I look for!
    He loses hearts. Lepidus flatters both,
    nothing else, nor that well neither.
  JESSICA. Lorenzo, certain; and my love indeed;
    That seem'd in eating him to hold him up,
    My soul doth tell me Hero is belied;
    In election for the Roman empery

    But, when I call to mind your gracious favours
    You shall read us the will, Caesar's will.  
    Do thou but call my resolution wise  
    That trudge betwixt the King and Mistress Shore.
    So mighty and so many my defects,
  Par. God shield I should disturb devotion!
    A man so breathed that certain he would fight ye,
  THIRD LORD. Doubt not that, if money and the season can yield it.
  Pedro. Come, let us hence and put on other weeds,

    Thy daughter shall be wedded to my king,

  BOY. Yes, that 'a did, and said they were devils incarnate.
  Queen. Mad as the sea and wind when both contend
    Craves harbourage within your city walls.
    And thank your lordship. By your leave, sweet ladies.
    This is a scurvy tune too; but here's my comfort.
  GREEN. Besides, our nearness to the King in love
    As, if it can, I will presume in you-  
    marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him to wear
  TOUCHSTONE. Nay, I shall ne'er be ware of mine own wit till I break
  PETRUCHIO. O, pardon me, Signior Gremio! I would fain be doing.
    humanity so abominably.
  GOWER. Alexander the Great.
  were so choleric.
    I do repent me; read not my name there;
    Heaven lay not my transgression to my charge!
  SPIRIT. The Duke yet lives that Henry shall depose;
  Prince. What, four? Thou saidst but two even now.
    That Cardinal Beaufort is at point of death;
    For thou set'st on thy wife.
    You have for dignities, to the mere undoing
             Come, tears, confound;

    Thoughts of great value, worthy cogitations.
LUCIANA. Spake he so doubtfully thou could'st not feel his meaning?
    I prithee, and I'll pay thee bounteously,
  MONTJOY. The day is yours.
    Of contumelious, beastly, mad-brain'd war,  
    Thou odoriferous stench! sound rottenness!
    As Caesar's death's hour, nor no instrument
    Both for your honour better and your cause;
     Affliction till it do cry out itself
  CLIFFORD. What wrong is this unto the Prince your son!

    thin fac'd knave, a gull?
  PROVOST. No.
    A sick man's appetite, who desires most that
    And all the unlook'd for issue of their bodies,
    Shall break into corruption. Thou shalt think
    He reputes me a cannon; and the bullet, that's he;
  SIR TOBY. Now will not I deliver his letter; for the behaviour of
  SECOND WATCHMAN. 'Tis the more honour, because more dangerous.
    Which once untangled much misfortune bodes
    That here you maintain several factions;
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY

    Makes Welsh as sweet as ditties highly penn'd,
    Like powder in a skilless soldier's flask,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    A noble Neapolitan, Gonzalo,
  QUINCE. Yea, and the best person too; and he is a very paramour for
    But howsoe'er, no simple man that sees
  Rom. I do protest I never injur'd thee,
    To cross my friend in his intended drift
    may be gone; it is not good you tarry here. By gar, I will
    These herblets shall which we upon you strew.
    All those which were his fellows but of late-
    serve heaven well, that you are so cross'd.
                           from Venice
    Let grow thy sinews till their knots be strong,
     Are in the poorest thing superfluous.
    And mince it sans remorse. Swear against abjects;
    The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn
  BIANCA, mistress of Cassio
    Commend me to my wife. I'll return consul,
    You fools of fortune, trencher friends, time's flies,
                                              [Presenting a box]
  PAGE. Prithee, Apemantus, read me the superscription of these
  Pedro. She shall be buried with her face upwards.
    A thievish living on the common road?
    Come hither, sir.
    pray you let me go.
    Her Highness is in safety, fear you not;
    By this I shall perceive the commons' mind,
  Each stone's dear nature, worth, and quality.
    Had I as many eyes as thou hast wounds,
    like to madness; pray heaven his wisdom be not tainted! And why
  THESEUS. Come now; what masques, what dances shall we have,  
    Of one not easily jealous, but, being wrought,
  QUEEN. Beside the haughty Protector, have we Beaufort
    For it is done.
    Then, good my lord, take to your royal self
                Exeunt GAOLERS, hearing out the body of MORTIMER
    And arms her with the boldness of a wife
    Pursued my life.

    Be thou asham'd that I have took upon me
    And take my ministers along with me.
  ISABELLA. I have no superfluous leisure; my stay must be stolen out
    Without discharge, money, or furniture,
    with sterling money, and the other with current repentance.
  Lady. Well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death
    What mean you, madam? I have made no fault.             Exit
    Swear by the duty that you owe to God,
    There is between my will and all offences
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    But, madam, I must trouble you again  
  CLEOPATRA. For what good turn?  
  Lear. But goes thy heart with this?
  KING. I pray you take me up, and bear me hence
  SON. As birds do, Mother.
    Nor much oppress'd them with great subsidies,
    Of that victorious stock; and let us fear
  Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea,
  COSTARD. Which is the greatest lady, the highest?
    glean'd, it is but squeezing you and, sponge, you shall be dry
    Vouch with me, heaven, I therefore beg it not
    know turtles from jays.
    Wilt thou draw near the nature of the gods?
    Obey our will, which travails in thy good;
    Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
  PLEBEIANS. You so remain.
    Of sun and moon, and that the affrighted globe
    Katharine our queen, before the primest creature
    Till by some elder masters of known honour
    room, comes me the Prince and Claudio, hand in hand in sad
  LUCIUS. Fie, no: do not believe it; he cannot want for money.
     And here I take Cordelia by the hand,
    Would sing her song and dance her turn; now here
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  as a man may not speak of without he say 'Sir-reverence.'
  SPEED.  [Aside]  O, give ye good ev'n!
    As lean-fac'd Envy in her loathsome cave.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
     I lov'd her most, and thought to set my rest
  PINDARUS. [Above.] Titinius is enclosed round about
     That ever ear receiv'd; which in recounting
    To Rome of our success. You, Titus Lartius,
    To soar with his light feathers; and so bound
    With his own hand did slay his youngest son,
    I cannot give it vital growth again,
    a letter?
    I shall unfold to thee, as we are going
    Find shapes of grief more than himself to wail;
    We must supplant those rough rug-headed kerns,
    Which was not so before. There's no such thing:
    O excellent device! Was there ever heard a better,
  Kent. Most certain, sir.
    You were half blasted ere I knew you. Ha!
  Reg. [to Edmund] Let the drum strike, and prove my title thine.  
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  STANLEY. Stirr'd up by Dorset, Buckingham, and Morton,
    But grow, like savages- as soldiers will,
    head sent me by five. Let this be duly performed, with a thought
  TOUCHSTONE. If any man doubt that, let him put me to my purgation.
    Let it alone; my state now will but mock me.
  CAIUS. By gar, you are de coward, de Jack dog, John ape.
  PANDARUS. Come, come. I'll hear no more of this; I'll sing you a
    Where, but even now, with strange and several noises
    Your brother's death, I know, sits at your heart;

    Fled from his father, from his hopes, and with
  SHEPHERD. Fie, daughter! When my old wife liv'd, upon
    hose. I'll go hide me.
  MALVOLIO. Come, sir, you peevishly threw it to her; and her will is
    And if mine arm be heaved in the air,
    he drinks no wine. There's never none of these demure boys come
    But spoke the harm that is by others done?
    A spur to valiant and magnanimous deeds,
    Paris your brother, and Deiphobus,
  MACBETH. Tomorrow, as he purposes.

    And he will look as hollow as a ghost,
    Suspect me that I mean no good to him.
    It would not out at windows nor at doors.

  Jul. Love give me strength! and strength shall help afford.
               Come, trusty sword;
    Thy now unsur'd assurance to the crown

    If you do find me foul in her report,  
    thy damnable faces, and begin! Come, the croaking raven doth
    Forgive me in thine own particular,

    By thee Anjou and Maine were sold to France;
  VINCENTIO. What am I, sir? Nay, what are you, sir? O immortal gods!
                     47
  CLIFFORD. Whom should he follow but his natural king?
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Now, afore God, 'tis shame such wrongs are borne

    Thou wilt be throng'd to shortly.
    friend; his backward voice is to utter foul speeches and
    Think'st thou I'ld make a life of jealousy,
    I am as peremptory as she proud-minded;
  FLORIZEL. Come, come, he must not.
    By whose fell working I was first advanc'd,
    The long-grown wounds of my intemperance.
    Even to my person, than I thought he would
    And to the chapel let us presently.
    I might have told hereafter.
  FIRST GUARD. And time is at his period.  
    And make a pastime of each weary step,
    Yet every mother breeds not sons alike:
    Which casket 'twas I chose; next, if I fail
    To be so flouted in this royal presence?
    I' th' right and strength o' th' commons' be it either
    Does't not go well? Cassio hath beaten thee,
  IACHIMO. Two creatures heartily.
    Knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to heaven,
  Edg. To who, my lord? Who has the office? Send
    That, when he please again to lie himself,
    One Michael Cassio, a Florentine
EPILOGUE
    Where do the palmers lodge, I do beseech you?
    Let them want nothing that my house affords.
  CORIOLANUS. I am content.
    It boots not to resist both wind and tide.
  NYM. I cannot kiss, that is the humour of it; but adieu.
                         Enter another MESSENGER
  Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
    To Theseus must be wedded, and you come
  Prince. So please your Majesty, I would I could
    If we do lose this battle, then is this
    And something to be done immediately.
    She may, I think, bestow't on any man.
    What signifies my deadly-standing eye,
    But that this folly douts it.                          Exit.
    'Tis death to me to be at enmity;
Before Gloucester's Castle; Kent in the stocks.
  Therefore away, to get our stuff aboard.
    Domestics to you, serve your will as't please
  LEWIS. And still is friend to him and Margaret.
    Should run thy head from thy unreverent shoulders.
Scene III.
    cherisher of my flesh and blood; he that cherishes my flesh and  
    For, by my fathers' reverend tomb, I vow
    over it; for in most comely truth thou deservest it.
  Jul. Ancient damnation! O most wicked fiend!
  SERVING-MEN. Open the gates unto the Lord Protector,
    Have one man but a man? And that is it
    And in the Capitol and Senate's right,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    O, what authority and show of truth
    Now will I charge you in the band of truth,

  KING RICHARD. We will ourself in person to this war;
  PORTER. You i' th' camlet, get up o' th' rail;
    The midwife wonder'd; and the women cried
    To your best kindness; one of your great knowing
    Which, like the courser's hair, hath yet but life
    which now shall die in oblivion, and thou return unexperienc'd to
    The greatest of your having lacks a half
    Behind the arras I'll convey myself
  AUTOLYCUS. This is a merry ballad, but a very pretty one.
  POST. He was convey'd by Richard Duke of Gloucester
    The praise of it by telling, you must know,
  ELINOR. Farewell, gentle cousin.
  HELEN. O, sir-
    All our whole city is much bound to him.
    Any annoyance in that precious sense!
    Let's hew his limbs till they be clean consum'd.
  And break it with a deep-divorcing vow?
  ALONSO. Irreparable is the loss; and patience
    Are melted into air, into thin air;
  Mess. Don Pedro is approach'd.
    But that between us we can kill a fly
  Although our undivided loves are one:
  AGUECHEEK. Has broke my head across, and has given Sir Toby a
    Thus, for my duty's sake, I rather chose  
    That beggars mounted run their horse to death.
  EUPHRONIUS. Lord of his fortunes he salutes thee, and  
    with ease attempt you, I will go further than I meant, to pluck
  KING PHILIP. By heaven, lady, you shall have no cause
    The means that heaven yields must be embrac'd
           Upon the dull earth dwelling.
  Lear. Prithee go in thyself; seek thine own ease.
  GUIDERIUS. Fear no more the lightning flash,
    Who, trimm'd in forms and visages of duty,
    My noble grapes, an if my royal fox
    He only lived but till he was a man,
    There is much matter to be heard and learn'd.
    Indeed my mother! Or were you both our mothers,
  The cause of this fair gift in me is wanting,
    'Tis thee (my self) that for my self I praise,
    him, I will search impossible places. Though what I am I
    happier affairs may be are to me unknown; but I have missingly
  CLEOPATRA. O, I would thou didst,
    Whom have I injur'd, that ye seek my death?
ABBESS. You should for that have reprehended him.
     wak'd him, you should enjoy half his revenue for ever, and live
    butter-women's rank to market.
  MENENIUS. The Senate, Coriolanus, are well pleas'd
    of her, the small acquaintance, my sudden wooing, nor her sudden
    And have is have, however men do catch.
  DORCAS.    Whither?
    Only to seem to deserve well, and to beguile the supposition of
    Hark, hark, one knocks. Portia, go in awhile,

  BEROWNE. [Reads] 'Item. That no woman shall come within a mile of
    Is that the rebels have consum'd with fire

    it--a double heart for his single one. Marry, once before he won
    Stands in attainder of eternal shame.  

  LAUNCELOT. Not a poor boy, sir, but the rich Jew's man, that would,
    But who comes here?
    He will have all, I think.
    And high and low beguiles the rich and poor;

  CORIOLANUS. A goodly city is this Antium. City,
    Three thousand times within this three years' space;
    ignorant of what greatness is promised thee. Lay it to thy heart,
    Sirrah, go you to Bartholomew my page,
    compass; and now I live out of all order, out of all compass.
    they say shall never be saved by half that they do. But this is
    heart-burning heat of duty,
    When we shall hap to give't them.
    wife;
    Blunt, lead him hence; and see you guard him sure.
            Then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es
    I shall remember more. Bid him- ah, what?-
  Ber. I think it be no other but e'en so.
    And set up Lancaster. Why, trowest thou, Warwick,
  ADAM. No matter whither, so you come not here.
  TIMON. An thou shouldst, thou'dst anger ladies.

  SUFFOLK. How cam'st thou so?
    have the same dagger for myself, when it shall please my country

SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  BOTTOM. A very good piece of work, I assure you, and a merry. Now,
  GLOUCESTER. I go. Come, Nell, thou wilt ride with us?
    For, since the substance of your perfect self
    I know the boy will well usurp the grace,
  KING. Where did you find it then?  
    Should with a bond of air, strong as the axle-tree
  HELENA. Stay, though thou kill me, sweet Demetrius.
    Such harmony is in immortal souls,
  FORD. Well said, brazen-face; hold it out. Come forth, sirrah.
    Do this, and purchase us thy lasting friends.'
  ALL. Amen.  

    Upon the wounds his body bears, which show
  MOTH. That ever turn'd their eyes to mortal views!
                         Exeunt PETRUCHIO, KATHERINA, and GRUMIO
Enter, with Drum and Colours, Cordelia, Doctor, and Soldiers.
    Once touch my shoulder. Great the slaughter is
ADRIANA. Horn-mad, thou villain!
    To be death's conquest and make worms thine heir.
                      Exeunt all but SHALLOW, SLENDER, and EVANS
  ROSALIND. Love is merely a madness; and, I tell you, deserves as
    The man that mocks at it and sets it light.
    To leave the figure, or disfigure it.
  YORK. O, Charles the Dauphin is a proper man:
    Which did subdue the greatest part of Spain;
    That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops-
    not.
    For purchasing but trouble. The thanks I give
    That wilt not stay her tongue.
    Acquainted with this stranger; 'tis as like you
  PERDITA. Sir, my gracious lord,
  CASSANDRA. The gods are deaf to hot and peevish vows;
    Now, cousin, wherefore stands our army still?
  SOLANIO. I never heard a passion so confus'd,
  Which many legions of true hearts had warmed,
  Claud. If he dote on her upon this, I will never trust my
  DUNCAN. See, see, our honor'd hostess!
  Of such a burden, male twins, both alike.
     Have a command to tend you?
    Her affability and bashful modesty,
    Which cannot in their huge and proper life
  Jul. How art thou out of breath when thou hast breath
    Our title to the crown, and only claim
    Cousin, on Wednesday next our council we

    That you elect no other king but him,
with drum and colours
  CASSIUS. I know that virtue to be in you, Brutus,
    That Warwick's bones may keep thine company.            Exit
    office of God and the devil? One brings the in grace, and the
  TITUS. What, would you bury him in my despite?
            Enter Glendower with the Ladies.
    A beggar begs that never begg'd before.
   The severals and unhidden passages
    It makes us, or it mars us; think on that,
                    Enter Rosencrantz.
    And not a serpent's poison. Say our pleasure,

  NORFOLK. 'Tis so;
  CRANMER. So.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    If he should still malignantly remain
    But time will not permit. All is uneven,
    Meet me within this hour at Baynard's Castle.
    Can change their moons and bring their times about,
  Edg. Horrible steep.
  Of his heart's meteors tilting in his face?
    For quick accumulation of renown,
    To underprop this action? Is 't not I
  OTHELLO. I am glad to see you mad.
    For it hath cow'd my better part of man!
  EVANS. The dozen white louses do become an old coat well;  
    Should see salvation; we do pray for mercy,
    His days are foul and his drink dangerous.
  My sinful earth these rebel powers array,
           Wind horns. Enter MARCUS, from hunting
    thinking? Sure, they sleep; he hath no use of them. Why,
  Queen. O me, what hast thou done?
    If not, to compass her I'll use my skill.               Exit
A nunnery
  CELIA. We'll lead you thither.
    And 'twixt his finger and his thumb he held
    But if it did infect my blood with joy,
    Look, Marcus! Ah, son Lucius, look on her!
  WOLSEY. My sovereign, I confess your royal graces,
    Now buckler falsehood with a pedigree?
  GEORGE. Yet let us all together to our troops,
  ISABELLA. Alas, alas!
    And so his peers, upon this evidence,
  ARVIRAGUS. All gold and silver rather turn to dirt,
    Myself and what is mine to you and yours
Padua. A public place
    To justice, continence, and nobility;
            In eye of Imogen, that best
                      Enter an ENGLISH HERALD
              Enter Don Pedro, Leonato, Claudio.
    seem very politic. But couch, ho! here he comes; to beguile two
  VALENTINE. Now, tell me, how do all from whence you came?
    blind Cupid.
    bolder;  
    Or the division of the twentieth part
     How is't, my lord? How look you?
    As may beseem a monarch like himself.
    How happy then were my ensuing death!
  Than when her mournful hymns did hush the night,
  1. Serv. Nay, then, come on, and take the chance of anger.
    As fits a king's remembrance.
    with a halter as another.
    ready here hard by in the brew-house; and when I suddenly
    I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
    to Venice.
                That befall prepost'rously.
                                                  Kills himself.
  MACDUFF. Then yield thee, coward,
    Empties itself, as doth an inland brook
    And breathe twice, and cry 'so, so,'
  HECTOR
  COMINIUS. Who's yonder
    CYMBELINE, and exeunt. Then re-enter LUCIUS and IACHIMO,
    give the watch-ords, do as I pid you. Come, come; trib,
    When no man was his own.
    The hope and expectation of thy time  
  SHALLOW. I will not excuse you; you shall not be excus'd; excuses
    And make our faces vizards to our hearts,
    Come hither, boy. If ever thou shalt love,

  That, undividable, incorporate,
    Of Herne the Hunter let us not forget.
      set upon the guard, who fly, crying 'Arm! Arm!' WARWICK
    well Metellus Cimber; Decius Brutus loves thee not; thou hast
    The Britain reveller.
    How with a sportful malice it was follow'd  

  MENENIUS. The augurer tells me we shall have news tonight.
    When you have conquer'd my yet maiden bed,
    The nature of it? In what kind, let's know,
    Will cry for vengeance at the gates of heaven.
    And so offend him; for I tell you, sirs,
Drums. Flourish and colours. Enter the KING, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE,
    There's nothing level in our cursed natures
    Which in the time of death he gave our father.
    And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
  CAMPEIUS. I would your Grace
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Well, then, who dost thou mean shall be
    What is her burying gave, that is her womb;
    Enter the two KINGS, with their powers, at several doors

  DEMETRIUS. I had rather give his carcass to my hounds.
  LUCIUS. So, sir.
  CAESAR. Doth not Brutus bootless kneel?
    My name hath touch'd your ears: it is Menenius.
    If thou wilt lend this money, lend it not

    And yet it irks me the poor dappled fools,
  ANNE. Adieu, poor soul, that tak'st thy leave of it!

  THURIO. What says she to my face?
                                             They draw on both sides.
    Unloading of his mules.
  A loss in love that touches me more nearly.  
                       Enter SIR WILLIAM LUCY
    The seat of Gaunt, dukedom of Lancaster.
  SIR TOBY. We'll call thee at the cubiculo. Go.
  YORK. How long shall I be patient? Ah, how long
  PAINTER. 'Tis a good piece.
    As are to meet him.
  Host. An old man.
    That wails her absence?  
  POMPEY. Sir, she came in great with child; and longing, saving your

    Or, when you wak'd, so wak'd as if you slept.
    And kiss thy fair large ears, my gentle joy.

    I have been troubled in my sleep this night,
    gallant service.
  JULIA. Of all the fair resort of gentlemen
  BEROWNE. Sweet lord, and why?
    The resignation of thy state and crown
    The consequence o' th' crown, and must not foil
    And fawn on rage with base humility,
  BOTTOM. If I were fair, Thisby, I were only thine.
     Stands in some rank of praise. [To Goneril] I'll go with thee.
  These often bathed she in her fluxive eyes,
England and France
    praise us, as little accuse us.
  MESSENGER. Where is my prince, the Dauphin?
             Through this house each fairy stray.
    Made good the passage, cried to those that fled
    The hand was fair before! I have put you out.
                                   [They all read their letters]

    burst, and now repaired with knots; one girth six times piec'd,
  GUIDERIUS. No, nor thy tailor, rascal,
    To-morrow night look that thou lie alone;
  DEMETRIUS. Oppose not Scythia to ambitious Rome.
    died. They say he made a good end.
    His arms are only to remove from thee
     Your loop'd and window'd raggedness, defend you
    excellent stratagem.
                                               Exit [Balthasar].

    Why, that's the lady! All the world desires her;
    God's will! I pray thee, wish not one man more.
  GREMIO. So said, so done, is well.
  FLUELLEN,               "      "  "    "     "
    think what a man is. Let her consider his frailty, and then
    And never of the Nevils' noble race.  
    I have, and I will hold, the quondam Quickly
  Pedro. There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be a fancy
    From out the state of hellish cruelty!
  HELENA. How might one do, sir, to lose it to her own liking?

  ARCHBISHOP. Before, and greet his Grace. My lord, we come.
    To rush into the secret house of death
    Sorrow so royally in you appears
    From this most bravest vessel of the world
  Reg. I am glad to see your Highness.
    For self-same wind that I should speak withal
  ROSALIND. Now, Hercules be thy speed, young man!
    From his allegiance to an heretic;

    To fear the foe, since fear oppresseth strength,
    Put finger in the eye, an she knew why.
    you, sir?
    So trouble me no more, but get you gone.
    That Talbot's name might be in thee reviv'd
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Do so; this jest shall cost me some expense.
    for ever.

  CAMILLO. No remedy.
    thou wot, wot ta? Do, do, thou rogue! do, thou hemp-seed!
    And to rebuke the usurpation
    With what is spoke already.
    Throw up thine eye! See, see what show'rs arise,
    Die, damned wretch, the curse of her that bare thee!
    And cried, in fainting, upon Rosalind.

    Familiarly shall call thy Dorset brother;
    As from a voyage, rich with merchandise.
  At random from the truth vainly expressed.
  GLOUCESTER. It is too heavy for your Grace to wear.
  CAMILLO. It is fifteen years since I saw my country; though I have
    For any suit of pounds; and you, O fate!
    Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'd,
    All guiltless, meet reproach. What, ho! My lord!
  MESSENGER. Should I lie, madam?
    Fast to the chair. Be heedful; hence, and watch.
    Has uncheck'd theft. Love not yourselves; away,

    Go levy men and make prepare for war;
A field of battle between the Roman and the Volscian camps
    [Aside]  For they account his head upon the bridge.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  FERDINAND. Sir, she is mortal;
  WESTMORELAND. When ever yet was your appeal denied;
    No, no; when Fortune means to men most good,
  IAGO. And when she speaks, is it not an alarum to love?
  PRINCE. My Lord of Warwick!
                   Francis follows with wine].
    And you as well to keep her that defend her,
    any ill, nor the King, nor the Queen; and therefore, Peter, have  
  PEDANT. I warrant you. But, sir, here comes your boy;
  DUKE. None, but that there is so great a fever on goodness that the
    And Rice ap Thomas, with a valiant crew;
    Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
         And lady-smocks all silver-white

  HASTINGS. Fear you not that: if we can make our peace  

  PANDARUS. What says my sweet queen?-My cousin will fall out with
    too. In her they are the better for their simpleness; she derives  
  I'll stop mine ears against the mermaid's song.
    To bear the tidings of calamity.
    affection ranges evenly with mine. How canst thou cross this
    And now you are metamorphis'd with a mistress, that, when I look
    Or for Love's sake, a word that loves all men;
    Come, come, Nerissa, for I long to see
  BUCKINGHAM. Doubt not, my lord, I'll play the orator
    key of the cuckoldly rogue's coffer; and there's my harvest-home.
    For your best health and recreation.
    A seat for baseness.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
Enter SEBASTIAN and CLOWN
    Now, Master Sheriff, what is your will with me?
    Thou hast robb'd me of this deed. I would revenges,
    Even as her appetite shall play the god
    Never sound more! When drums and trumpets shall
  Stealing away the treasure of his spring:  
  Prince. Now, Harry, whence come you?
    Those bated that inherit but the fall
  Ros. None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
the BASTARD, HUBERT, and LORDS
    You know it is the feast of Lupercal.
  TROILUS. Behold, I pray you.
  HECTOR. O, 'tis fair play!
    Some entertainment for them in their tents.
  CELIA. I could match this beginning with an old tale.
  PAGE.  [Aside]  Sir Hugh is there, is he?
  LONGAVILLE. Look, here's thy love: my foot and her face see.
          Leave thy drink and thy whore,
  TROILUS. And I'll grow friend with danger. Wear this sleeve.
    I'll have this secret from thy heart, or rip
    And let Bianca take her sister's room.
    From our faults, as his faults from seeming, free.
    Or else you get no beef of Grumio.
  Fal. The other night I fell asleep here behind the arras and had my
    Why, then you must. Will you put out mine eyes,
  Ham. That's two of his weapons- but well.
    see you move him? Let me alone with him.
    When in your motion you are hot and dry-  
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  ROSALIND. I could shake them off my coat: these burs are in my
    Than priests and fanes that lie.
    for my labour.
    The air will drink the sap. To every county
  GREY. No other harm but loss of such a lord.
    beseech Him!
    But they do square, that all their elves for fear
  Pedro. My visor is Philemon's roof; within the house is Jove.
    Oft have I seen a timely-parted ghost,
    Good signior, you shall more command with years
    The Dian of that time. So doth my wife
  IAGO.               A good wench; give it me.
  DUKE. That we were all, as some would seem to be,
  Come, sister. Dromio, play the porter well.
    And some condemned for a fault alone.
  PISTOL. A foutra for thine office!
    We would spend it in some words upon that business,
    accompt.
    Bequeath thy land to him and follow me?


  MENENIUS. What is about to be? I am out of breath;
    Either of condemnation or approof,
    Depos'd his nephew Richard, Edward's son,
  KING HENRY. My lords, what to your wisdoms seemeth best
  PAROLLES, a follower of Bertram
      Lucio and the lively Helena.'
    We do not act that often jest and laugh;
    I have a motion much imports your good;
    For love of Edward's offspring in my womb.
  SALISBURY. [To the Commons within] Sirs, stand apart, the King
  PETRUCHIO. Born in Verona, old Antonio's son.
    'To Saturn,' Caius- not to Saturnine:
  SECOND LORD. Till then I'll keep him dark and safely lock'd.
  SECOND MURDERER. Look behind you, my lord.
  MENENIUS. He's right noble;
    Why, now let me die, for I have liv'd long enough; this is
    What wheels, racks, fires? what flaying, boiling
    Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
    And straight is cold again.
  YORK. That Somerset be sent as Regent thither;
    think scorn to sigh; methinks I should out-swear Cupid. Comfort
    I'll blush you thanks.
    If I had play'd the desk or table book,
    Your uncle Worcester's horse came but to-day;

    His champions are the prophets and apostles;

  TITUS. Is not my sorrow deep, having no bottom?  
  PAROLLES. I would the cutting of my garments would serve the turn,
    Of that most delicate lodging. By my life,
  ANTONY. Gentle Octavia,
    To that sweet thief which sourly robs from me.
  GLOUCESTER. I do the wrong, and first begin to brawl.
  VINCENTIO. But is this true; or is it else your pleasure,
     The cup of their deservings.- O, see, see!
  FERDINAND. O, if a virgin,
  CLEOPATRA. Think you there was or might be such a man
  SPEED. The conclusion is, then, that it will.
  HERMIONE. What is this? Sport?
  DESDEMONA. But half an hour!  
  Hot. I'll have it so. A little charge will do it.
  MONTANO. Good faith, a little one; not past a pint, as I am a
  VALENTINE. I have din'd.  
    At the next word. No more of 'worthy lord'!
    And, fearing he would rise, he was so virtuous,
    Light, seeking light, doth light of light beguile;  
  Have I not seen dwellers on form and favour
    When thou hold'st up thy hand. O, let me kiss
        It was a lover and his lass,
    O Lancaster, I fear thy overthrow
     A most toad-spotted traitor. Say thou 'no,'
          Nor cutpurses come not to throngs;

  Doug. Arm, gentlemen! to arms! for I have thrown
    Well, to the rest:
    In this I'll be impartial; be you judge
    Would I propose to achieve her whom I love.
    the devil his due.
  CASSIUS. Brutus, a word with you.

    And in that sea of blood my boy did drench
    He's honest, on mine honour. God's blest Mother!
                                      [YORK occupies the throne]
    That lie too heavy on the commonwealth;
    And he shall feel mine edge.
    How went he under him?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Dost thou live by thy tabor?
    Himself with his good arms in lusty stroke
  Kent. I must love you, and sue to know you better.
  ISABELLA. That in the captain's but a choleric word
    Would he were wasted, marrow, bones, and all,
    That I would all my pilgrimage dilate,
    For my poor brother's head.
    And make him naked foil a man-at-arms.
      Why, then comes in the sweet o' the year,
    Which may to you, perhaps, seein much unsinew'd,
    In execution.
  King. O Gertrude, come away!
    Covering discretion with a coat of folly;
  MRS. OVERDONE. And what shall become of those in the city?
  HIPPOLYTA. 'Tis strange, my Theseus, that these lovers speak of.
    As thou art in desire? Wouldst thou have that
SCENE V.

    Than I do now. With thought of such affections,
    I know not whether God will have it so,

    Look that you take upon you as you should.
    Here stand a pair of honourable men--
    Before I would have granted to that act.
  OLIVIA. What think you of this fool, Malvolio? Doth he not mend?
    Can clear me in't.

    Antenor! The young prince will go mad. A plague upon Antenor! I
  AUTOLYCUS. Ay, an it like your good worship.
    O Time, thou must untangle this, not I;
    Our sex, as well as I, may chide you for it,
  ROSALIND. Why, then, to-morrow I cannot serve your turn for
  PERDITA. How often have I told you 'twould be thus!
  DUNCAN. There's no art
    Was like to be the best.
    for your life, to come speak with me.
    Bajazet's mule, if you prattle me into these perils.
  AEDILE. He's coming.
    My parasite, my soldier, statesman, all.
    answer.
    Came post with post, and every one did bear

  MALVOLIO. Sad, lady? I could be sad. This does make some
    concerning your marriage.
    And anything that may not misbecome
  SHYLOCK. Most learned judge! A sentence! Come, prepare.
    That thou art crowned, not that I am dead.
  CLOWN. Ay, Madam.

    title!
  KING PHILIP. Bind up your hairs.
    And then the end is known. Come, ho! Away!           Exeunt.
    Religion to the gods, peace, justice, truth,
  FALSTAFF. Will you tell me, Master Shallow, how to choose a man?
  ANGELO. You seem'd of late to make the law a tyrant;
  CAESAR. Let our best heads
  Lady Capulet, wife to Capulet.
  Beat. No, truly, not; although, until last night,
    What kind of man he is.  
    It cannot be but thou hast murd'red him;
by William Shakespeare
    And do not interrupt me in my course.
  FERDINAND, King of Navarre
    At Christmas I no more desire a rose
  SECOND GENTLEMAN.  [Looking on the QUEEN]  Heaven
    I came to serve a king and not a duke.
    With his sword drawn, foam'd at the mouth, and swore,
    With unrestrained loose companions,
  CASSIUS. How 'scaped killing when I cross'd you so?
  LONGAVILLE. Costard the swain and he shall be our sport;
    To stranger blood, to foreign royalty.
    For yours, the God of heaven brighten it!
    To give it due content.
  GRATIANO. A second Daniel, a Daniel, Jew!
  Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
    Balm his foul head in warm distilled waters,
    like him that leapt into the custard; and out of it you'll run
    I will respect thee as a father, if
    All there is thine.
  DEMETRIUS. I would I had your bond; for I perceive
  TIMON. I have a tree, which grows here in my close,
    For peace, for love, for league, and good to Rome.
    And he's at some hard point. Speak, man; thy tongue

    Wherewith you now bedew King Henry's hearse,
  LADY MACDUFF. What had he done, to make him fly the land?
  MONTAGUE. Brother, I go; I'll win them, fear it not.
    As, liking of the lady's virtuous gifts,
  Jul. Ay, those attires are best; but, gentle nurse,
     [To the Fool] In, boy; go first.- You houseless poverty-
    Nothing but males. Will it not be received,
    unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her
    In no less working than are swords and bows
    To make the dear loss, have I means much weaker
    command; I have turn'd away my other guests. They must
    To try my fortune. By this scimitar,
    For which I will divide my crown with her;
    Go, give 'em welcome; you can speak the French tongue;
  WIFE to SIMPCOX
  CURIO, gentleman attending on the Duke
    wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't! it hath made
    Wound it with sighing, girl, kill it with groans;
SCENE II.
    Which ne'er came from the lungs, but even thus-
    O me, 'tis my mother! How now, good lady!
    Both warbling of one song, both in one key;
  LAUNCE. I never knew him otherwise.  
    Wherein he might the King his lord advertise
    my lips so wide as a bristle may enter in way of thy excuse; my

    And said 'Commend me to my valiant brother.'
  OBERON. Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania.
shot at him
    The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
  EXETER. To Eltham will I, where the young King is,
                                           [BRAKENBURY reads it]
    Misprizing what they look on; and her wit

  Claud. I think he thinks upon the savage bull.
    As if the garment had been made for me;
    An argument that he is pluck'd, when hither
    The people's magistrates.
    After that things are set in order here,
    To angle for your thoughts; but you are wise-
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Peg-a-Ramsey, and                                    [Sings]
    Cold statues of the youth; and, in a word,
  CLOWN. Alas, sir, how fell you besides your five wits?
    ARTHUR, DUKE OF BRITAINE, son of Geffrey, late Duke of
    For shame, put up.
  FALSTAFF. What disease hast thou?
    Suggest but truth to my divining thoughts,
    I have not stopp'd mine ears to their demands,
    How honourable and how kindly we
    To know your royal pleasure.
     Legitimate Edgar, I must have your land.

  BASTARD. Mine was secure.
  SERVANTS. My lord! my lord!
     To do upon respect such violent outrage.
    Sit laurel victory, and smooth success
  ORLEANS. He's of the colour of the nutmeg.
                       Enter VERNON and BASSET
  SERVANT. Here is the sister of the man condemn'd
    Brook, I fear not Goliath with a weaver's beam; because
    He may not, as unvalued persons do,
    Your sweet dependency, and you shall find
    Sleeping and waking, O, defend me still!            [Sleeps]
    For an abuser of the world, a practicer
  POSTHUMUS. Thou bring'st good news: I am call'd to be made free.


    Proceed no straiter 'gainst our uncle Gloucester
    So.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. By me?
     The name, and all th' additions to a king. The sway,
  Prince. Do thou stand for my father and examine me upon the
    What you in wisdom still vouchsafe to say.
    That we may be admitted where he is.
    Among the high tides in the calendar?

  SICINIUS. He's a disease that must be cut away.
    poor unworthy brother of yours, with idleness.
  Hot. Why, look you, I am whipp'd and scourg'd with rods,
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. Then you have lost a sight which was to be seen,
  HASTINGS. Go on before; I'll talk with this good fellow.
  RICHARD. So, lie thou there;
    Rebellion's head, rise never till the Wood
    And die in terror of thy guiltiness!
    How swift his ship.  
  DEMETRIUS. I would we had a thousand Roman dames
    Than to be perk'd up in a glist'ring grief
    Convert, o' th' instant, green virginity.
        rights;
              I do wander every where,
    Thou think'st there is no more such shapes as he,
    Which now came from him.
    Shall have judicious hearing. Stand, Aufidius,
    I see some sparks of better hope, which elder years
  TIME, as Chorus
    Against your honor
  KING HENRY. I thank you; God be with you!
    Yet god Achilles still cries 'Excellent!
  PLEBEIANS. It shall be so, it shall be so.
    Lucifier and Belzebub himself, it is necessary, look your Grace,  
    He had a fever when he was in Spain,

    subject for a sovereign to reason on, and for a sovereign's
    Let every eye negotiate for itself  
    But when he once attains the upmost round,
    And now they never meet in grove or green,
    And then in post he came from Mantua
    to fall.
    Prefix'd for's parting.- Yet, good deed, Leontes,
  GLOUCESTER. Cousin of Buckingham, a word with you.
    Who lives that's not depraved or depraves?
 CANTERBURY. 'T would drink the cup and all.
     your indignation against my brother till you can derive from him
    To make a shaking fever in your walls,
  SPEED. 'Item: She can wash and scour.'
    Kingdoms and provinces.
    My father, Earl of Cambridge, lost his head.
     There's mine! beg another of thy daughters.
  CHARMIAN. Nay, if an oily palm be not a fruitful prognostication, I

    Theirs for the earth's increase, mine for my sorrows?
    He may surrender; so we shall proceed
    But is there no quick recreation granted?
  OLIVIA. Alas, it is the baseness of thy fear
 Exit
  DIOMEDES. Now, my lord.
    Is my kinsman, whom the King hath wrong'd,
                                                         Exeunt.
    As rushing out of doors, to be resolved
  GLOUCESTER. You may deny that you were not the mean
  BASTARD. Now, by my life, this day grows wondrous hot;
  CATESBY. I go.                                            Exit
    To bring him in! Trust me, I could do much-
  My wife-but, I protest, without desert-
  Pedro. That she is worthy, I know.
    Will do his bidding. Brutus, come apace,
                     24
    And when she seem'd to shake and fear your looks,
    Hath this extent, no more. Rude am I in my speech,
    These, as I learn, and such like toys as these

  IAGO. And you shall be satisfied.                           Exeunt.
  WARWICK. How now! how now! what's the matter?
    Which for some reasons I would not have seen.
  He preached pure maid and praised cold chastity.
    shall have good fortune. Go to, here's a simple line of life;
    In such a Barley should I answer thee.

    How cam'st thou in this pickle?
    I with the Morning's love have oft made sport;
                                     awake and kneel to THESEUS]
  LORD. Bid them come near.
  CALPURNIA, wife of Caesar
    As in a Romish stew, and to expound

    Even such a body. Here I am Antony;
  BEROWNE. Yet I have a trick
  LUCIUS. It is a day turn'd strangely. Or betimes
  EROS. My dear master,
    [Reads] 'Item. If any man be seen to talk with a woman within
    One, two, three. Time, time!             Exit into the trunk
  Marg. So would not I for your own sake, for I have many ill
    Break with your wives of your departure hence.
    young prince, i' faith.
  IAGO. Virtue? a fig! 'Tis in ourselves that we are thus or thus.
    And then again begin, and stop again,
    been a bawd.

    That holds his honour higher than his ease,
    To show how costly summer was at hand
    Heaven stops the nose at it, and the moon winks;
  ROSALINE. Which of the vizards was it that you wore?
    As thou canst yield a melancholy seat!
    Thus from my lips, by thine my sin is purg'd.  [Kisses her.]
  PAROLLES. Good Monsieur Lavache, give my Lord Lafeu this letter. I
    There is no woe to his correction,
    end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
  BOLINGBROKE. Thy pains, Fitzwater, shall not be forgot;
  Kent. See better, Lear, and let me still remain
  SIMPLE. Ay, for fault of a better.
  MENENIUS. Hear me speak.
    Lest that thy wives with spits and boys with stones,

    Of the non-sparing war? And is it I
  Prince. Let's see whit they be. Read them.
  KING HENRY. [Aside] I know not what to say; my title's weak.-

    Heaven give your spirits comfort!               Exit CLAUDIO
    The greater part, the horse in general,
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Ye tell me what ye wish for both-my ruin.
  WOLSEY. May it please you, noble madam, to withdraw
    Unless thou couldst put on some other shape
    This unprevailing woe, and think of us
    If thou stand excommunicate and curs'd?
    Yield to his humour, smooth and speak him fair,
    For poor'st diminutives, for doits, and let
    And not the King exil'd thee; or suppose
  WIDOW. Now I see
    though she smelt brown bread and garlic. Say that I said so.
     Are they inform'd of this? My breath and blood!
    Much in our vows, but little in our love.
    Soft! here comes sleeve, and t'other.
  That seasoned woe had pelleted in tears,
    me?
  DUKE. Did you such a thing?
    Of his ill-ta'en suspicion! Come, Camillo;
    But, by the mass, our hearts are in the trim;
  ANTONY. Yes, my lord, yes. He at Philippi kept
    And do't the speedier that you may direct me
    Come, mourn with me for what I do lament,
    Though haply well for you.
    And let my spleenful sons this trull deflower.          Exit
  CLARENCE. To murder me?
    Perhaps he sees it not, or his good nature
  PAROLLES. I beseech you, let me answer to the particular of the
  GLOUCESTER. My Lord of Winchester, I know your mind;
    be very rich, any man is so very a fool to be married to hell?
    The better shall my purpose work on him.
    pardon me.
    English'd rightly, is 'I am Sir John Falstaff's.'
    In their distractions. They now are in my pow'r;
    Hath not that honour in't it had; for where
    Would move a monster.
    Ere I arise I will prefer my sons;
    will either push on or pluck back thy business there; whereupon I

  DUKE SENIOR. What would you have? Your gentleness shall force
The moated grange at Saint Duke's
  HELENA. O, were that all! I think not on my father;
    Craving us jointly. Hie you to horse; adieu,
    The Scripture says Adam digg'd. Could he dig without arms? I'll
     Cannot be well bestow'd.
    Farewell to thee too, Strato. Countrymen,
    That instant was I turn'd into a hart,

    it will not in circumvention deliver a fly from a spider without
    You can endure the livery of a nun,
    He has strangled his language in his tears.
  PERCY. The grand conspirator, Abbot of Westminster,
     I will keep still with my philosopher.
    Chief factors for the gods: I do not know

    As you respect the common good, the state
  MIRANDA. Sweet lord, you play me false.
    March on, and mark King Richard how he looks.
  CRESSIDA. Good morrow, then.
  ANNE. Good Master Shallow, let him woo for himself.  
    And force them with a constancy, the Cardinal
    So great as our dread father's, in a scale
    Prithee come hither: what fair lady's that?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  Prince. O, this boy
brother to Leonato.
    From east, west, north, and south. Be it concluded,
  CAMILLO. He would not stay at your petitions; made
Dramatis Personae

  HENRY, EARL OF RICHMOND, afterwards KING HENRY VII
    His realm a slaughter-house, his subjects slain,
    Is't like that lead contains her? 'Twere damnation
  EVANS. You say he has been thrown in the rivers; and has
    It is judgement maim'd and most imperfect,  
           Mastiff, greyhound, mongrel grim,
    Thou hast redeem'd thy lost opinion,
    We three here part that ne'er shall meet again.
    That us'd me so; or else, by Jove I vow,
    Bid Butler lead him forth into the park.
    Then how can Margaret be thy paramour?
    prove my occupation a mystery; but what mystery there should be
  MELUN. Have I not hideous death within my view,
    Detest them, curse them. Yet 'tis greater skill
                         Enter Lucio and ISABELLA
    That is the madman. The lover, all as frantic,
              Re-enter CAESAR and all his train
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Lest it make you choleric, and purchase me
    His fretted fortunes give him hope and fear
    Which, wash'd away, shall scour my shame with it.
             Youth's a stuff will not endure.
  Which this (Time's pencil) or my pupil pen
  ANTONIO. And stand indebted, over and above,
    His act did not o'ertake his bad intent,
    You have won a happy victory to Rome;
  CLOWN. He shall see none to fear.


    her marriage, and things which would derive me ill will to speak
  LEONTES. You're liars all.
    Or thy affection cannot hold the bent;
    Your lordship shall along. Come, good Sir Thomas,
  YORK. You mean, to bear me, not to bear with me.

    Then fiery expedition be my wing,
  IAGO. I protest, in the sincerity of love and honest kindness.
  Thus he unknown to me should be in debt.
    An unkind breech; but you shall make all well.
  SERVANT. Please you, my lord, there are certain ladies most  
                              Exeunt [all but Juliet and Nurse].

    A grandam's name is little less in love
    With sharp constraint of hunger; better 'twere
    Their mother's bedchamber should not be safe
    and God give thee joy!
    Unto a lineal true-derived course.

    Lust and rank thoughts, hers, hers; revenges, hers;
  ANNE. Gentle Master Fenton,
    ad imprimendum solum; to th' church take the priest, clerk, and
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
                  noise, they heavily vanish
  Ham. They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that. I  
    All that is won and lost. Give me a kiss;
    Under your testy humor? By the gods,
  NORFOLK. Then you lost

  LONGAVILLE. You have a double tongue within your mask,
    And follow'd with the general throng and sweat
  Soldiers, Attendants, Messengers, Watchmen, etc.
    Of sweet young Rutland, by rough Clifford slain;
  OBERON.       Stand aside. The noise they make
  But all alone stands hugely politic,  
  BRUTUS. And when such time they have begun to cry,
  IACHIMO. It cannot be i' th' eye, for apes and monkeys,
Enter ADRIANA, wife to ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS, with LUCIANA, her sister
    I kill'd a man, whose death I much repent;
  ANTONIO. But little: I am arm'd and well prepar'd.
                   and the rest following them
    That I will joy no more.
    thou hast done in a woman's petticoat?
    'Tis to be doubted he would waken him.
                                      Exeunt SUFFOLK and WARWICK

    Com'st thou again for ransom?
    In prison hast thou spent a pilgrimage,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
                                                  [A retreat sounded]
    Greek commanders:
    Till all these mischiefs be return'd again
    The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes,
    Save to the God of heaven and to my king;
    Than if not look'd on. I will lead the way.
    I mean his conversation with Shore's wife-
    Bid them achieve me, and then sell my bones.
                   Re-enter Lady Macbeth.
    I will not wish ye half my miseries:
    And plighter of high hearts! O that I were
    But yet, poor Claudio! There is no remedy.  
  QUEEN MARGARET. Out, devil! I do remember them to
    Are to a wise man ports and happy havens.
    The Lord's anointed temple and stole thence
  COUNTESS. With very much content, my lord; and I wish it happily
    and hath all those requisites in him that folly and green minds  
    Of courts, of princes, of the tricks in war.  
  Mine eye's clear eye, my dear heart's dearer heart,

    Strains his young nerves, and puts himself in posture
     Where is my Lord of Gloucester?
  DUKE. My holy sir, none better knows than you
  BOLINGBROKE. Lords, you that here are under our arrest,
  BOLINGBROKE. Royally!

  KATHARINE, lady attending on the Princess
  CRESSIDA. Is't possible?
    In wholesome counsel to his unstaid youth?
    Under this plot. She dies for't. Eros, ho!              Exit
  THIRD MESSENGER. My lord, the army of great Buckingham-
  But he that writes of you, if he can tell,
  In quest of them, unhappy, lose myself.
  MOPSA,   shepherdess

  SERVANT. I do, Mark Antony.
  LEWIS. Then, Warwick, thus: our sister shall be Edward's.
  KING HENRY. The bird that hath been limed in a bush
Another part of the field
    of fighting, and I must go up and down like a cock that nobody
    And just against thy heart make thou a hole,
  KING RICHARD. [To NORTHUMBERLAND] We are amaz'd; and thus long
    The faith they have in tennis, and tall stockings,
    So he dissolv'd, and show'rs of oaths did melt.
    But when extremities speak. I have heard you say
    To wrong the dead, to wrong myself and you,
SCENE 3.
  Beat. I cry you mercy, uncle, By your Grace's pardon.    Exit.
    And make his wrongs his outsides,
SCENE III.
     You lords and noble friends, know our intent.
    rascal is this! an infidel! Ha! you shall see now, in very
    And blazoning our unjustice every where?
    that soundly; you cannot tell who's your friend. Open
  CASSIUS. Those that have known the earth so full of faults.
  TYRREL. Let me have open means to come to them,

  PAGE. No.
    Ere in our own house I do shade my head,
    Unless by using means I lame the foot
    With whose envenomed and fatal sting
  1. Play. 'But who, O who, had seen the mobled queen-'
Enter Menteith, Caithness, Angus, Lennox, and Soldiers.
    Which his aspiring rider seem'd to know,
  CASSIUS. Ha? Portia?
  ANNE. By my troth and maidenhead,

    Beguil'd all spies.
  BIGOT. What wilt thou do, renowned Faulconbridge?

    And wrangle with my reason, that persuades me
    An awful rule, and right supremacy;
    And when thou hast given it to the Emperor,
  ALICE. La main? Elle est appelee de hand.
    It comes in charity to thee; for all thy living
    Affront his eye.
    And well deserving? Yet I know her for
  Cap. No, not a whit. What, I have watch'd ere now
  BUCKINGHAM. Every man,
  SECOND CITIZEN. One word, good citizens.
  IMOGEN. Nay, stay a little.
    Dear sovereign, pardon to me.
    The other half in use, to render it
  Osw. Would I could meet him, madam! I should show
      'My thoughts do harbour with my Silvia nightly,
    How many things by season season'd are
    Fie, fie, how franticly I square my talk,
  DEMETRIUS. Ay, and Wall too.
  WILLIAM. Ay, sir, I thank God.

  Beat. That I was disdainful, and that I had my good wit out of the

  Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
    Shall live the lease of nature, pay his breath
  FALSTAFF. Let me see them, I beseech you.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. Were you there?
  CLOWN. E'en that you have there.                          Exit  
  KING. Ay, and the best she shall have; and my favour
    But stay'd and made the western welkin blush,
    See you well guerdon'd for these good deserts.
    That kiss'd his hand away in courtesy;
  BERTRAM. You are deceiv'd, my lord; she never saw it.
  IAGO.                                    What,
    Come, Desdemona, I have but an hour
  CERES
    withal
    Words, vows, gifts, tears, and love's full sacrifice,
    we fat ourselves for maggots. Your fat king and your lean beggar
    God knows thou art a collop of my flesh;
    May be call'd ransom, let it come. Sufficeth
  BARDOLPH. Away, you whoreson upright rabbit, away!
  That due to thee which thou deserv'st alone:
    Thou hast lost by this a kingdom.
and Sir Walter Blunt.
    That might so much as think you enemies.  

    Will see his burial better than his life.
         Re-enter GENTLEWOMAN, With VALERIA and an usher
    tasted, allow us as we prove; our head shall go bare till merit
  Ros. How can that be, when you have the voice of the King himself
Scene II.
  BEROWNE. Where? when? what vizard? Why demand you this?
  Ham. Ay, or any show that you'll show him. Be not you asham'd to

    Give me some drink; and bid the apothecary  
    of the wise sit in the clouds and mock us. Is your master here in
     But if thy flight lay toward the raging sea,
    But our request shall make me let it pass.
    For till I see them here, by doubtful fear
    Than for the love of reckless Silvia.                   Exit
    I thought to close mine eyes some half an hour;
    A thing inspir'd, and, not consulting, broke
    When thou didst crown his warlike brows with paper
    And you shall find his vanities forespent
    What may you be? Are you of good or evil?
    If you go forward; therefore yield or die.
  COSTARD. True, true; and now you will be my purgation, and let me
  ANTONY. Fulvia is dead.
    Hark, Polydore, it sounds. But what occasion
    ask.
    In sleep I heard him say, "Sweet Desdemona,
  So you o'er-green my bad, my good allow?
    And every day I cannot come to woo.
  SPEED. You conclude that my master is a shepherd then, and
                        Casca first, then the other Conspirators
    The instruments that feel.
    Jew is forfeit; and since, in paying it, it is impossible I  

  CLEOPATRA. Prithee, peace.
    Let it not gall your patience, good Iago,
  TITINIUS. I will be here again, even with a thought.     Exit.
  LUCETTA. Yet he, of all the rest, I think, best loves ye.
    Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
    Till it fly out and show them princes born.           Exeunt
    He'll think anon it lives.
  DIANA. 'Tis not the many oaths that makes the truth,
  BAPTISTA. And yet you halt not.
  CASSIO. Lo, where he comes!
    But he's a learned man. May he continue
    That you are well acquainted with yourself,
    Now, Decius Brutus, yours; now yours, Metellus;
    Henry doth claim the crown from John of Gaunt,
    in truth.
    You have among you many a purchas'd slave,
    they that have been my friends; and woe to my Lord Chief Justice!
  CAIUS. Oui; mette le au mon pocket: depeche, quickly. Vere
  Leon. Well, niece, I hope to see you one day fitted with a husband.
    To see what friends are living, who are dead.
  TIMON. Let it not cumber your better remembrance. [The banquet
    The imminent death of twenty thousand men
     How have you known the miseries of your father?
    Will it give place to flexure and low bending?
THE TRAGEDY OF ROMEO AND JULIET
    A son of mine, which long I have not seen.
  COMINIUS. Look, sir, your mother!  
  PETRUCHIO. Padua affords nothing but what is kind.  
Enter CELIA and ROSALIND
    How many days will finish up the year,
  ORLANDO. Yes, I beseech your Grace; I am not yet well breath'd.
  If I should pay your worship those again,
    she yet wears for his sake; and he, a marble to her tears, is
    Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee?
  BUCKINGHAM. Welcome, sweet Prince, to London, to your
    Your wonder; but yet speak. First, you, my liege.
    Which gives the stern'st good night. He is about it:
    To undergo such maiden pilgrimage;
    With this immodest clamorous outrage
    And my appointments have in them a need
  HUBERT. Heat me these irons hot; and look thou stand
    delight in him; and the commendation is not in his wit, but in
    vous m'avez appris des a present.
    No! yet time serves wherein you may redeem
  MARIA. Nay, good Sir Toby.
    Out of my files, his projects to accomplish,
              Exeunt BAPTISTA, GREMIO, BIONDELLO, and ATTENDENTS
    The bug which you would fright me with I seek.
    And as the morning steals upon the night,
    To fight against me under Percy's pay,
    Foundations fly the wretched; such, I mean,
  ANTONIO. And most chirurgeonly.
     burning, scalding, stench, consumption. Fie, fie, fie! pah, pah!
  Beat. You always end with a jade's trick. I know you of old.
    The Volsces whom you serve, you might condemn us
  Of proofs new-bleeding, which remained the foil
Exit.
  ISABELLA. I have ta'en a due and wary note upon't;
    That I may kindly give one fainting kiss.
    seeks her own salvation?
    And lawfully by this the Jew may claim
    On equal terms to give him chastisement?
    of the noble. Therefore let me have right, and let desert mount.

ACT V. SCENE I.
    So many greedy looks of young and old
    And tell them that I will not come today.  
    have lost it.
  MARULLUS. What trade, thou knave? Thou naughty knave, what trade?
    For my part, I do not lie in't, yet it is mine.
    be a tailor to thee, and shall make thee a new doublet and

    The mayor and all his brethren in best sort-
  FORD. Bless you, sir!
  BERTRAM. Your brother, he shall go along with me.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I, gentle mistress.
    Some parcels of their power are forth already,  
  And fortify your self in your decay
  MESSENGER. Within this mile and half.
  Dog. Your worship speaks like a most thankful and reverent youth,

  BIANCA. Let the devil and his dam haunt you! What did you mean by
    Is guilty of this lamentable chance! The lady stirs.
    [To RICHMOND]  Thou offspring of the house of Lancaster,
  PROVOST. And very welcome. Look, signior, here's your sister.
  KING HENRY. Now, fie upon my false French! By mine honour, in true
     And leave you to attend him. Some dear cause  
    Which Lion vile with bloody mouth did stain.
  JESSICA. Farewell; and if my fortune be not crost,
  VIOLA. For saying so, there's gold.

  DUKE. Relate your wrongs. In what? By whom? Be brief.
    Cardinal Campeius is arriv'd and lately;
    window, where we play, open; and the moon may shine in at the
    I say, in a lower chair, sir; 'twas in the Bunch of Grapes,
    As many arrows loosed several ways  
    Gall, worse than gall, the daintiest that they taste!
    And kiss me, Kate; we will be married a Sunday.
  LEPIDUS. To-morrow, Caesar,
  THIRD CITIZEN. But this is something odd.

    But I will lift the downtrod Mortimer
  TAURUS. My lord?
    will set him clear. How fairly this lord strives to appear foul!

  SECOND CITIZEN. An 'twere to give again- but 'tis no matter.
    Though written in our flesh, we shall remember
    With joyful tidings; and, being better hors'd,
                            Enter PROVOST
    From whence this present day he is delivered?


    No more infected with my country's love
    I daily vow to use it. Come, and lead me
    And not alone in habit and device,
    That doth not wish you joy.
  But do thy worst to steal thy self away,
  THESEUS. Moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead.


  CHAMBERLAIN. I am glad 'tis there. Now I would pray our monsieurs
  MOTH. And I.
  Host. Why, Sir John, what do you think, Sir John? Do you think I
  HECTOR. We'll answer it:
and then leaves him
    And thus still doing, thus he pass'd along.
    I, to comfort him, bid him 'a should not think of God; I hop'd

     Until some half hour past, when I was arm'd,
    than blind reason stumbling without fear. To fear the worst oft
    Was near at hand. Ne'er long'd my mother so
  Messenger. These letters come from your father.
    And it appears he is belov'd of those
    Fit to be made companion with a king.
  KING HENRY. I blame you not;
  ALCIBIADES. Now the gods keep you old enough that you may live
    And these does she apply for warnings and portents
  FALSTAFF. Thou whoreson mad compound of majesty, by this light
    Prefix'd by Angelo. See this be done,

    If they deny him justice. Twenty merchants,

    It were impossible I should speed amiss.
    Have you conspir'd, have you with these contriv'd,
  When wasteful war shall statues overturn,
    capacity; there is no obstruction in this. And the end- what
    Through brazen trumpet send the breath of parley
    In honour of my noble Lord of York
    The leaf to read them. Let us toward the King.
                       Re-enter PUCK
  ROSALIND. Orlando?
  CLAUDIO. O, hear me, Isabella.
  CASSIUS, instigator of the conspiracy

                                                  Exit DEMETRIUS
    I'll send for you anon. Sir, I obey the mandate,
    What, is't too short? I'll lengthen it with mine;
    'Tis told me he hath very oft of late
                             SCENE 3.
    Command these fretting waters from your eyes

    Of golden sovereignty; acquaint the Princes
    Shall you my son. You have me, have you not
  WARWICK. My heart assures me that the Earl of Warwick
    Give me thy hand,
from the murder of DUKE HUMPHREY
    commendations. My horse is tied up safe. Out, sword, and to a
    Call forth the holy father.                Exit an ATTENDANT

    And I have found Demetrius like a jewel,
     nuncle? Would I had two coxcombs and two daughters!
    A weight of carrion flesh than to receive
The street, near Leonato's house.
  The charter of thy worth gives thee releasing:
     No unchaste action or dishonoured step,
    Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear,
    And twit with cowardice a man half dead?  
    Leonato's?

    him on, and it takes him off; it persuades him and disheartens
    Where folly now possesses? Do thou work.
    Posthumus anchors upon Imogen;
    Of the Duke only, 'gainst all other voice.  
    pitch will be defil'd. The most peaceable way for you, if you do
    Of what we blame him for!
SCENE IV.
    Be not afraid, though you do see me weapon'd;
    What business, lord, so early?
    Since doubting things go ill often hurts more
    right; but to the point. As I say, this Mistress Elbow, being, as
  As soon as think the place where he would be.
    Upon no Christian soul but English Talbot.
  HORTENSIO. Signior Baptista, will you be so strange?
    Out, you rogue! you pluck my foot awry;
     An they will take it, so; if not, he's plain.  
  TALBOT. What chance is this that suddenly hath cross'd us?

  JOHN. They have the more need to sleep now, then.
    What! look upon my brother. Both your pardons,
    To try conclusions, in the basket creep

  THIRD MURTHERER. Hark! I hear horses.
    But carries on the stream of his dispose,
    That I am meek and gentle with these butchers!

    thee, I can assure thee that. 'A will not out, 'a; 'tis true
    As if you held a brow of much distraction.
    That Bona shall be wife to the English king.
    beast a man; in some other a man a beast. You were also,
    For I am sure you can wish none from me;
    bugbear take him!
    near to make a man look sad.
  Some say thy grace is youth and gentle sport,
    Or give me ribs of steel! I shall split all
                  Re-enter Lucius with Ligarius.

    For in Baptista's keep my treasure is.
    Yet he is come.
    Now, by my sceptre, and my soul to boot,
    Of outward order; this we came not to,
    A poor unminded outlaw sneaking home,


    'Tis not the balm, the sceptre, and the ball,

    My unblown flowers, new-appearing sweets!
  Rom. O single-sold jest, solely singular for the singleness!
    My part thereof that I have done to her.
    Save only the gods. Now his friends are dead,  
    I will discase me, and myself present

    She's gone. I am abused, and my relief
    And, with a feeble grip, says 'Dear my lord,
    As things but done by chance.
  BAPTISTA. Now, by my holidame, here comes Katherina!
  Prince. What didst thou lose, Jack?
    not be in that mind.
  SOLANIO. And so will I.
    O'erpays all I can do. By this your king
    Dispersed are the glories it included.
  Jul. What villain, madam?
  CASSIO. Dost thou prate, rogue?                   Strikes Roderigo.
  FLUELLEN. There is occasions and causes why and wherefore in all
  PANDULPH. Your mind is all as youthful as your blood.
    him. I will tell you a thing, but you shall let it dwell darkly
    Have mercy, Jesu! Soft! I did but dream.
     This is the letter he spoke of, which approves him an
    And doth enlarge his rising with the blood
    Or, if misfortune miss the first career,
                     Flourish for the Players.
    Or else, when thou didst keep my lambs afield,
    niece your daughter and meant to acknowledge it this night in a
  MORTON. Douglas is living, and your brother, yet;
  BRUTUS. He is not doubted. A word, Lucilius,
    Where that his lords desire him to have borne
    Or how stol'n from the dead.
    A prating boy that begg'd it as a fee;
    Inferring arguments of mighty force.
    Who art as black as hell, as dark as night.
     May be prevented now. The princes, France and Burgundy,
    tennis-court-keeper knows better than I; for it is a low ebb of  

  RIVERS. We wait upon your Grace.
    To fight with Talbot; as he march'd along,
    O, call back yesterday, bid time return,
  PROVOST. Come, sir, leave me your snatches and yield me a direct
    One of these days; and then you'd wanton with us,
  CELIA. 'Tis true; for those that she makes fair she scarce makes
    To fight for and maintain.
    to thy friend.
    Our lock'd embrasures, strangles our dear vows
    I?
  KATHERINA. No such jade as you, if me you mean.
    The night-crow cried, aboding luckless time;
  Ham. Do not believe it.
    It is so too. And have not we affections,
  TROILUS. By Jove, I will be patient.
  IAGO. You have said now.
    And with this hateful liquor temper it;
    look, or any woman else.
             On board POMPEY'S galley, off Misenum
  KING JOHN. Whose party do the townsmen yet admit?
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. To make an act of tragic violence.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What, wilt thou flout me thus unto my face,
    But in the end, to stop my ear indeed,
    Came to the bar; where to his accusations
  TALBOT. My thoughts are whirled like a potter's wheel;
    Is not so estimable, profitable neither,
    That thought he could do more, a very little
    And love thee after. One more, and this the last;

  MONTJOY. You know me by my habit.

    one that I am not acquainted withal; for, sure, unless he
  BEDFORD. O, let no words, but deeds, revenge this treason!
    Or race of youthful and unhandled colts,
    And leave you to the hearing of the cause,
    And egally indeed to all estates-
    And thou that smil'dst at good Duke Humphrey's death
    The County will be here with music straight,
    Thy buried fear. Herein all breathless lies
    When willingly I would have had her here!
    'Twould be my tyranny to strike and gall them
    fast?
    Philip of France, if thou be pleas'd withal,
  ANTONY. So much uncurbable, her garboils, Caesar,
    By moonshine do the green sour ringlets make,
    Is all afraid to govern thee near him;
    Alas, I blame you not, for you are mortal,
    Domestic awe, night-rest, and neighbourhood,  
    throats are cut he may be ransom'd, and we ne'er the wiser.
    Great Media, Parthia, and Armenia,
    A rider like myself, who ne'er wore rowel

    Were but one danger, and to keep him here
                         Enter another MESSENGER
  PROSPERO.  [Aside to ARIEL]  Bravely, my diligence. Thou  
  POMPEY. I know thee now. How far'st thou, soldier?
    I got a promise of this fair one here
  Nor did I wonder at the lily's white,
    And from my heart's love I do thank thee for it.
  Prince. I know thou dost.
    goose. But all's brave that youth mounts and folly guides. Who  
    Then tell me whither were I best to send him.
    spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection.
        Trumpets sound, and the KING and his train pass
  Hor. Well, sit we down,
    (A fellow almost damn'd in a fair wife)
    Worthy his frowning at. Their discipline,
  MACBETH. Blood hath been shed ere now, i' the olden time,
    While I spare speech, which something now offends me-
    But what comes from myself, it shall scarce boot me
    In the base court? Base court, where kings grow base,
  CAIUS. You jack'nape; give-a this letter to Sir Hugh; by gar,
    That you are thieves profess'd, that you work not
    Have you delivered to her our decree?

  OTHELLO.           Why of thy thought, Iago?
  OTHELLO.               Let him do his spite.
    The pale-fac'd moon looks bloody on the earth,
    Leave unsaluted. Sink, my knee, i' th' earth;       [Kneels]

    Good work, you and your cry! Shall's to the Capitol?
    Keep there; now talk at pleasure of your safety.
  TRANIO. Master, for my hand,
    by me.

  Ben. Romeo! my cousin Romeo! Romeo!

    And with all speed post with him toward the north
  PETER. [Presenting his petition] Against my master, Thomas Horner,
    Which God defend a knight should violate!-
    Do thine own fortunes that obedient right
    This is the Cardinal's doing; the King-Cardinal,
ABBESS. Ay, but not enough.
    Which, in a napkin being close convey'd,
    wardrobe. 'Sblood, I am as melancholy as a gib-cat or a lugg'd
  Or from their proud lap pluck them where they grew:  
    I fear, I fear 'twill prove a giddy world.
Exit.
    As is a dead man's nose; but I do see't and feel't
     May prove effects. Back, Edmund, to my brother.
    Fly off our loves again!
  KING RICHARD. Norfolk, we must have knocks; ha! must we
    But that's no matter; let him kill one first.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    She, Claudio, that you wrong'd, look you restore.
    All faults that man may name, nay, that hell knows,
    But fly I hence, I fly away from life.

    That sought at Oxford thy dire overthrow.
    A city full; of tribunes such as you,
ABBESS. Hath he not lost much wealth by wreck of sea?
    about him. Good then; if his face be the worst thing about him,

    And strain their cheeks to idle merriment,
  LAFEU. How call'd you the man you speak of, madam?
    Till time had made them for us. But it chances
    We kill the fowl of season; shall we serve heaven
    On either side I come to spend my breath,
    this had not befallen; but since it is as it is, mend it for your  
  BASTARD. Brother, take you my land, I'll take my chance.

    What means this scorn, thou most untoward knave?
    But do not like to stage me to their eyes;
    For this design. What course I mean to hold  

PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    To pay their awful duty to our presence?
    And he shall surety me. But for this lord
    I may entitle thee my loving father:
    Why should not I then prosecute my right?
    I have tumbled past the throw, and in his praise
    With Ate by his side come hot from hell,
    sooner it wears. That thou art my son I have partly thy mother's
    Such hideous cries that, with the very noise,
    He fell upon me ere admitted. Then
    If not, to Signior Gremio.

    won the bridge, killing all those that withstand them.
    Intends you for his swift ambassador,
    With modest warrant.
    That was at last out-fac'd by Bolingbroke?
    Kneeling before this ruin of sweet life,
  CYMBELINE. Mine eyes
    But fish not with this melancholy bait
  WARWICK. King Lewis, I here protest in sight of heaven,
     Rive your concealing continents, and cry
    O, if I could, what grief should I forget!
    Will not confess he owes the malady
    Want mercy if I do not join with him!
    And would usurp upon my wat'ry eyes
    The Duke being at the Rose, within the parish
    Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.

  ANGELO. He's sentenc'd; 'tis too late.
  ULYSSES. Why then, for Venus' sake give me a kiss
  Which to repair should be thy chief desire:
    fellow to think as every man thinks. Never a man's thought in the

    Sweep your way for you. Pray you look not sad,
     Than that conferr'd on Goneril.- Now, our joy,
  MARCUS. Patience, dear niece. Good Titus, dry thine eyes.
    And she was wean'd (I never shall forget it),
    The sleepy grooms with blood.
    morning. That same mad fellow of the North, Percy, and he of
    From forth the streets of Pomfret, whom I found
  ALONSO. I heard nothing.
  DUKE. Sir, your company is fairer than honest. Rest you well.
    Expos'd unto the sea, which hath requit it,

    His beauty shall in these black lines be seen,
    Who hateth him and honours not his father,
    Let me be punish'd that have minded you
    These lovers cry, O ho, they die!

    King Henry's peers and chief nobility
    It stands as an edict in destiny.
    Decius, go tell them Caesar will not come.
    When capital crimes, chew'd, swallow'd, and digested,
    Look therefore, Lewis, that by this league and marriage
    I have consider'd of a course. Good lady,
  Gent. Ready, my lord.
    The corse they follow did with desp'rate hand
  Which one by one she in a river threw,
    Will clear or end the business. When the oracle-
    And say she uttereth piercing eloquence.
  PROTEUS. Sir, but I do; or else I would be hence.
    Will soon be levied. Herald, save thou thy labour;
  SHALLOW. He hath wrong'd me, Master Page.

    But our great Ajax bravely beat down him.'
                Enter Prince Escalus, with his Train.
  SUFFOLK. A dow'r, my lords! Disgrace not so your king,
    He left me proudly, as unworthy fight.
    The dearest ring in Venice will I give you,
    Or any other ground inhabitable
    Or stronger for your need.
  OLIVIA. O, you are sick of self-love, Malvolio, and taste with a
  HOSTESS. O, run Doll, run, run, good Come.  [To BARDOLPH]  She
    An habitation giddy and unsure
  ROSALIND. Then shall we be news-cramm'd.
    That noble minds keep ever with their likes;
    more than contempt, you would not give means for this uncivil
    To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
  Osr. Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
    Yet in the number I do know but one
  ANTONY. Sir,
    Ay, even such heaps and sums of love and wealth
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. How can she thus, then, call us by our names,
    Is that you reconcile them: while the Volsces
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
            Thy sheep be in the corn;
  BOYET. But to speak that in words which his eye hath disclos'd;
    Beldam, I think we watch'd you at an inch.
    O you hard hearts, you cruel men of Rome,
    ensconcing ourselves into seeming knowledge when we should submit

SCENE III.
A street leading to the Park
    Where a malignant and a turban'd Turk
    And bring all Cyprus comfort.
    Alas, alas! Help, help! My lady's dead!
    And make his eyeballs roll with wonted sight.
    And be not peevish-fond in great designs.
  CENTURION. Let's hear him, for the things he speaks
    I mean thou shalt- we'll bar thee from succession;
  AARON. Had he not reason, Lord Demetrius?
    Have wrought the easy-melting King like wax.  
    For I am he am born to tame you, Kate,
                      Re-enter ANTONY
    That with such vehemency he should pursue
    poor woman.
  Jul. To answer that, I should confess to you.
    What's here?
    And in their ship I am sure Lorenzo is not.

    For him, and in his right, we hold this town.
    Terras Astrea reliquit,
    Stand not to answer: here, take thou the hilts;
    Count wisdom as no member of the war,
  

    Hours, minutes; noon, midnight? And all eyes
                  Enter SILVIA above, at her window
    The sun will set before I shall discharge
  PROTEUS. Nay, if the gentle spirit of moving words
    I do beseech you, take it not amiss:
Enter LEONTES, CLEOMENES, DION, PAULINA, and OTHERS
    Is with a mighty power landed at Milford

    Even in the afternoon of her best days,
    Upbraided me about the rose I wear,
    To greet your lord with writing, do't to-night.
  PRINCE. YOU whoreson candle-mine, you, how vilely did you speak of
    Which now the loving haste of these our friends,
ACT_4|SC_3
    To line and new repair our towns of war
    With casted slough and fresh legerity.
    Against all rules of nature, and must be driven
    I come to lose my arm or win my sleeve.
    In the relief of this oppressed child
  SICINIUS. Fare you well.

    When severally we hear them rendered.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  Even as when first I hallowed thy fair name.
     Your faults as they are nam'd. Use well our father.
    young pigeons?  
    The villain is alive in Titus' house,
    I heard thee say, and vauntingly thou spak'st it,
    I am resolv'd for death or dignity.  
    Lest with my sighs or tears I blast or drown
     Ripeness is all. Come on.
    Smile upon this contract; whose ceremony
    There's no such sport as sport by sport o'erthrown,
    I will deny thee nothing.
    So, so. Well done, well done.
    master Jew's?
    Thou ran'st a tilt in honour of my love
                      [Within: 'A way there, a way for Caesar!']
    or strip your sword stark naked; for meddle you must, that's
  MUSTARDSEED. Ready.
    happiness through another man's eyes! By so much the more shall I

    Supposing that I lack'd it. But on, Caesar:
    I charge thee be not thou more griev'd than I am.
    And we their hands.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. I know he doth not, and do arm myself
  TROILUS. I prithee stay.
    Some to discover islands far away;
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Then deputy of Ireland, who remov'd,
  ALENCON. Of all exploits since first I follow'd arms
  FALSTAFF. Nay, you shall hear, Master Brook, what I have
  Nor need I tallies thy dear love to score,
  IMOGEN. I see a man's life is a tedious one.
    And have install'd me in the diadem;
    To act in safety. There is none but he
    There may as well be amity and life
    What he will do. But if he will not yield,
  DESDEMONA.               No, by my life and soul!
    Make of your prayers one sweet sacrifice,
    That possible strength might meet, would seek us through,
    Bear with her weakness, which I think proceeds
    To pluck his indignation on thy head
    What is your name?

    That severs day from night.
    But cannot make my heart consent to take
    Where eyes did once inhabit there were crept,
  APEMANTUS. Canst not read?
    Upon his brow shame is asham'd to sit;
    lift as much as his brother Hector.
  PANDARUS. Say one of your watches.
    The edge of that day's celebration,
  HOSTESS. Alas the day! take heed of him; he stabb'd me in mine own
    Are they that I would have thee deal upon.
    This amorous surfeiter would have donn'd his helm
    He's very likely now to fall from him
    There's nothing differs but the outward fame.
    Thy mother gave thee when thou suck'dst her breast
    For virtue and true beauty of the soul,
    And partly credit things that do presage.
    Have by my means been butchered wrongfully?

    If it be poisoned, 'tis the lesser sin,
    And not of any challenge of desert,
  AARON. Ah, why should wrath be mute and fury dumb?
  BRUTUS. Mark Antony, here, take you Caesar's body.
     Our daughters' several dowers, that future strife
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. O, no, my reasons are too deep and
  CHARMIAN. Nay, come, tell Iras hers.
    I ran it through, even from my boyish days
                          Re-enter Othello.
    We all expect a gentle answer, Jew.
  Bene. 'Tis no such matter. Then you do not love me?
  SALISBURY. In this the antique and well-noted face
  ISABELLA. It is not truer he is Angelo

  GLOUCESTER. I cry thee mercy then, for I did think
    When evil deeds have their permissive pass
  KING RICHARD. Off with his son George's head!
    Shall I bend low and, in a bondman's key,

  Jul. Conceit, more rich in matter than in words,
    Augustus lives to think on't; and so much
  OTHELLO. Good Michael, look you to the guard tonight.
        Re-enter to WOLSEY the DUKES OF NORFOLK and
    When every goose is cackling, would be thought
  ENOBARBUS. [Aside] To be sure of that,
  West. This, match'd with other, did, my gracious lord;
  GLOUCESTER. Here.  [She spits at him]  Why dost thou spit
    Is a bold spirit in a loyal breast.
    Thou mayst not wander in that labyrinth:
  PAGE. Let's go in, gentlemen; but, trust me, we'll mock him.
    This letter he early bid me give his father,
    It is the flesh of a corrupted heart.
  PORTIA. You should in all sense be much bound to him,
    But thorough lust and laughter. Pity's sleeping.
    Do not as some ungracious pastors do,
  TAMORA. Andronicus himself did take it up.
  HOST of the Garter Inn
    Now swallow down that lie. For Gloucester's death-
    Of him that hears it, never in the tongue
  FLORIZEL. Dear, look up.
  Making a couplement of proud compare
    Even now I curse the day- and yet, I think,

    More than the wild-cat; drones hive not with me,

    What, rate, rebuke, and roughly send to prison,
    Till she herself confess it.
    And to the English court assemble now,
  PUCELLE. Reignier, is 't thou that thinkest to beguile me?
  DAUPHIN. Say, if my father render fair return,
    Farewell, kind Charmian. Iras, long farewell.
    a knave.
    We will not part from hence. Cesario, come;
    As it may lose some color.
  TIMON. Wrought he not well that painted it?

    And, which is worse, within thy nasty mouth!
    sometime the philosopher.
  CHATILLON. Then turn your forces from this paltry siege
    If fairings come thus plentifully in.
    Is apter than thy tongue to tell thy errand.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

    This stain upon her?  

  AGAMEMNON. The nature of the sickness found, Ulysses,
    Her words y-clad with wisdom's majesty,
    What say you to a piece of beef and mustard?
    To mend her kissing with!
    Permitted by our dastard nobles, who
    I lay it naked to the deadly stroke,
    That no man is the lord of anything,
    Go to the Empress, tell her this I said.      [He kills her]  
  ROBERT. The son and heir to that same Faulconbridge.
    And Anne my wife hath bid this world good night.
  FRENCH SOLDIER. Petit monsieur, que dit-il?
  QUINCE. Have you sent to Bottom's house? Is he come home yet?
    simple of the tetter, take and take again such preposterous
Enter MENENIUS and SICINIUS
  HECTOR. I must not believe you.
    Let all the battlements their ordnance fire;
  MOWBRAY. Well, by my will we shall admit no parley.
  LEONTES, King of Sicilia
    Thou know'st our meaning. Look for thy reward
    Posters of the sea and land,
    And swear here, by the honour of my blood,
  THIRD CITIZEN. And so did I; and, to say the truth, so did very


    The business of the state does him offense,  

                      Enter SILVIUS
  EXETER. Farewell, kind lord. Fight valiantly to-day;
    Glide thither in a day? Then, true Pisanio-
  LEONTES. It is; you lie, you lie.
    For by my scouts I was advertised
                           Enter A MESSENGER
    Have said and writ so, but your writing now
  SICINIUS. Sir, how comes't that you
    As if an angel dropp'd down from the clouds
    Stand ay accursed in the calendar!
    My soul flies through these wounds to seek out Thee.
    This oracle of comfort has so pleas'd me
    Of hot and forcing violation?
    Over whose acres walk'd those blessed feet
  KING EDWARD. Thus far our fortune keeps an upward course,
    Against this proud Protector with my sword!
    be thought a good student; but to be said an honest man and a
  ANTONY. Dead then?
      thimble,
    Under a hand accursed!
    To offer up a weak, poor, innocent lamb
    Let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius.
     Cannot be heard so high. I'll look no more,
    Seem to me all the uses of this world!
    And I a heavy interim shall support

  KING. 'Tis true. Where is he, Denny?
                                      [Here they skirmish again]

ACT III. SCENE I.
    was but a colour.
    Cries out upon the name of Salisbury!
    believe thou art Sir Topas the curate; do it quickly. I'll call
    being in his right wits and his good judgments, turn'd away the
Exit.
  Clown. Cannot you tell that? Every fool can tell that. It was the
  HOLOFERNES. You find not the apostrophas, and so miss the accent:
    A man, the worst about you.
  When winds breathe sweet, unruly though they be.
    By th' heels, and suddenly; and on your heads
     Beware my follower. Peace, Smulkin! peace, thou fiend!
    So much I love his heart. But I perceive
Another part of the forest
    I am not glad that such a sore of time
    Pluck down my officers, break my decrees;
    And echo with the clamour of thy drum,
    And I, an ass, am onion-ey'd. For shame!
  EVANS. Sir John Falstaff, serve Got, and leave your desires,
    This Charmian liv'd but now; she stood and spake.
  France. This is most strange,
    The son, the husband, and the father, tearing  
  King. What do you call the play?
    The common praise it bears.
    What good could they pretend?
    That comes to hazard for my worthless self.
    Who, when they see the hours ripe on earth,
SCENE VII
    the gentlemen are in sad talk, and we'll not trouble them. Come,
    That were the servants to this chosen infant,
  IAGO. There's many a beast then in a populous city,
    teeth be pull'd out.
    But do not look for further recompense
  QUICKLY. Shall I vouchsafe your worship a word or two?
  PEMBROKE. Who brought that letter from the Cardinal?
    country is most mockable at the court. You told me you salute not
    He gave his honours to the world again,
                          Exeunt BUCKINGHAM, MAYOR, and citizens
  PETRUCHIO. Signior Baptista, my business asketh haste,
  PETRUCHIO. To her, Kate!
    An emperor in Rome thus overborne,
    All that good time will give us. This attempt
    With an imperial voice-many are infect.

    your lordship.
                     and [others].
    And I am louted by a traitor villain
    In what part of your body pleaseth me.
    Would serve your turns.
    You'll not be perjur'd; 'tis a hateful thing;

    This is the latest glory of thy praise
  KING EDWARD. Now, brother Richard, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
    So idly to profane the precious time,
  FIRST SERVANT. But when goes this forward?
    I should be arguing still upon that doubt;
  WOLSEY. Is he in person ready?
    And will not let belief take hold of him
    With that, methoughts, a legion of foul fiends
  HERMIONE. Nay, come, sit down; then on.
    When Richard, with his eye brim full of tears,
  ISABELLA. Yes, truly; I speak not as desiring more,
    As thunder when the clouds in autumn crack.
     To make this creature fruitful.

                                                 [Oswald falls.]  
    As he in penance wander'd through the forest;
    And fell below his stem. His sword, death's stamp,
    Whiles Warwick tells his title, smooths the wrong,
  Great princes' favourites their fair leaves spread,
    bring the device to the bar and crown thee for a finder of
  For through the painter must you see his skill,
    By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!-
  AGUECHEEK. Nay, let me alone for swearing.                Exit

    though I did.
    And so it shall be so for Katherine.
    Myself, my brother, and this grieved Count
    Shall it for shame be spoken in these days,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    His eyes do drop no tears, his prayers are in jest;
    Fills him with faults; makes him run through all th' sins:
    Or seeming so in skill- cannot or will not
    My dear son Ferdinand.
  LONGAVILLE. A high hope for a low heaven. God grant us patience!

    Think you I bear the shears of destiny?
  AARON. Nay, come, agree whose hand shall go along,
  Even in the strength and height of injury.
    Frank nature, rather curious than in haste,
    Bar'st me my way in Rome?
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
     To strike at me, upon his misconstruction;

    And go to't with delight.
  ARMADO. By my sweet soul, I mean setting thee at liberty,
  Edm. If your honour judge it meet, I will place you where you shall
    lie. What a lack-brain is this! By the Lord, our plot is a good
    And worms will not come to thee.
  EVANS. And given to fornications, and to taverns, and sack,
    Point to rich ends. This my mean task
    I should not think it strange; for 'tis a physic
  YORK. Which for some reasons, sir, I mean to see.
    Here, take away this dish.
    The King shall know it, and, no doubt, shall thank you.

    For count of this, the Count's a fool, I know it,
  IAGO. You have not been abed, then?

    But how is it that great Plantagenet
    O Ceremony, show me but thy worth!
    for, in the great chamber.
    My favour were as great: be witness this.
  Ber. Long live the King!
    See, see, King Richard doth himself appear,
  GALLUS,        "    "   "
    That cropp'd the golden prime of this sweet prince
  LAUNCELOT. To be brief, the very truth is that the Jew, having done
    To guard a title that was rich before,
The house of ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS
     of unnaturalness between the child and the parent; death,
    Of bragging horror; so shall inferior eyes,
  CICERO. Why, saw you anything more wonderful?
    Each small annexment, petty consequence,
    But empty lodgings and unfurnish'd walls,
  PAROLLES.  [To BERTRAM]  These things shall be done, sir.
    Helen and Hero hildings and harlots, This be a gray eye or so,
    Bedabbled with the dew, and torn with briers,
  Bora. Stand thee close then under this penthouse, for it drizzles
    I know not what to do. I would to God,
  BEROWNE. Advance your standards, and upon them, lords;
    either to make him a garland, as being forsaken, or to bind him
                     35
    I do invite you to-morrow morning to my house to breakfast;

    And bid that strumpet, your unhallowed dam,
  The oil, the balsamum, and aqua-vitx.
  CLOWN. Think you so, sir?
  GUIDERIUS. By heavens, I'll go!

    warrant him, as gentle as a lamb. Go thy ways, wench; serve God.
  Although in me each part will be forgotten.
drum and trumpets
  Oft did she heave her napkin to her eyne,
    Who, then conceiving, did in eaning time
    With miry slime left on them by a flood?
  Hor. These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
    the no is, the French doctor, my master-I may call him
    Welcome to Troy! now, by Anchises' life,
    Though death be poor, it ends a mortal woe.
              WARWICK, and the DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER
ACT V. SCENE I.
    There's mischief in this man. Canst thou say further?
    again.
    But he hath chid me hence, and threat'ned me
    That by the help of these, with Him above
    Doth my name lodge? Tell me, that I may sack
    Only th' adulterous Antony, most large
    Must or for Britons slay us, or receive us
  Friar. God pardon sin! Wast thou with Rosaline?
    man-queller and a woman-queller.
  SICINIUS. Have you
  King. It seems then that the tidings of this broil
    As gravity's revolt to wantonness.
    If you do hold the same intent wherein
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Tribunes of the People
    And fall thy edgeless sword. Despair and die!

    Pitchers have ears, and I have many servants;
  IAGO. I learned it in England, where indeed they are most potent in
      know;
    threw this whale, with so many tuns of oil in his belly,
                             Exeunt KING, LORDS, and BLACKAMOORS
  Ham. I will tell you why. So shall my anticipation prevent your
    I was forc'd to scold. Your judgments, my grave lords,  
    that way, for it is said, 'God sends a curst cow short horns,'
  HELENA.  [Reads]  'Till I have no wife, I have nothing in France.'
  And tell his wife that, being lunatic,
    fight.                                   Exeunt all but FORD
    Else ne'er could they hold out so as they do.
    To see us here unarm'd. I have a woman's longing,
  Revenge upon my self with present moan?
Music plays. Enter A SERVINGMAN
    These well express in thee thy latter spirits.
  SEBASTIAN. I prithee vent thy folly somewhere else.
    my wife's sake.
    Proportionable to the enemy  
    As chaste as unsunn'd snow. O, all the devils!
  FORD. I like it never the better for that. Does he lie at the
    By this alliance to make void my suit.
  PUCK. What hempen homespuns have we swagg'ring here,
    I say at once let your brief plagues be mercy,
  So I, made lame by Fortune's dearest spite
  BEDFORD. Fore God, his Grace is bold, to trust these traitors.
  IAGO.                       O murtherous slave! O villain!
    That murd'red Pompey.  
    pray his Pible well dat he is no come; by gar, Jack Rugby,

    a place of meeting, wherein it is at our pleasure to fail; and
  That goldsmith there, were he not pack'd with her,
    Bid you Alexas
          Enter ARIEL, invisible, playing solemn music
    That tell black tidings.
     Both welcome and protection. Take up thy master.
     Followed his enemy king and did him service
    To princely Richard and to Buckingham.
  Glend. No, nor you shall not.
  Rom. Indeed I should have ask'd you that before.
    I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
  SIR TOBY. Possess us, possess us; tell us something of him.
    Till Birnam Wood remove to Dunsinane
  QUEEN. It may be so; but yet my inward soul
    Merry and tragical! tedious and brief!
  MACBETH. Speak, if you can. What are you?
    My love admits no qualifying dross;
    To pay this debt of love but to a brother,
    And none but tyrants use it cruelly.
    music, that he desires you, for love's sake, to make no more
  And for that sorrow, which I then did feel,
  QUEEN. This way the King will come; this is the way
  CLOWN. I have no mind to Isbel since I was at court. Our old ling

Enter GEORGE BEVIS and JOHN HOLLAND
    Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd evil
    When they do hug him in their melting bosoms.
    Shall Henry's conquest, Bedford's vigilance,

    And, being a woman, I will not be slack
    To sleep by hate, and fear no enmity?
    Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.'
    When I come where he calls, then he is gone.
    (Having so swift and excellent a wit
    From where he should begin and end, but will
  Beyond all date even to eternity.
  LORD BARDOLPH. I spake with one, my lord, that came from thence;  
    Which shall possess them with the heaviest sound
    sir; but I would not have you to think that my desire of having
    TITUS  
    thought on. But you must learn to know such slanders of the age,
                    Enter a Messenger.
  IAGO. Is my lord angry?
    Witness against us to damnation!
             Never mole, hare-lip, nor scar,
    Have any resting for her true King's queen.
    After the last enchantment you did here,
    His regiment lies half a mile at least
    With senators on the bench. This is it
    The reverend'st throat in Athens. So I leave you
AEGEON. A heavier task could not have been impos'd

    The Princess comes to hunt here in the park,
    In happy time!
  VIOLA. Orsino! I have heard my father name him.
    Once stir my temper; but this virtuous maid
    are kin to the King; for they never prick their finger but they
    I will instruct my sorrows to be proud,
  SIR TOBY. Ay, but he will not now be pacified; Fabian can scarce
  MENAS. Hoo! Noble Captain, come.                        Exeunt
    Were it not good your Grace could fly to heaven?
    Have holp to make so portly.
    [Knocking continues] By and by.
    And prays you to believe him.
    am that he, that unfortunate he.
  Even in the spring of love, thy love-springs rot?

    Thy crown, usurp'd, disgrac'd his kingly glory.
  HUME. This they have promised, to show your Highness
  Look in thy glass and tell the face thou viewest,
     minstrel.
    The enemy increaseth every day;
  DEMETRIUS. The very best at a beast, my lord, that e'er I saw.
    And more and richer, when he strains that lady;
  HECTOR. Fie, savage, fie!
  Edm. Come, come! When saw you my father last?  
    brain to set down her reckoning, bites his lip with a politic
    Shall see us rising in our throne, the east,
    A great man, I'll warrant; I know by the picking on's teeth.
    That it prefers itself, and leaves unquestion'd
    Fresh as a bridegroom; and his chin new reap'd  
    Some men there are love not a gaping pig;
  OTHELLO.                         Ay, Desdemona.
  FERDINAND. Admir'd Miranda!
  SLY. Y'are a baggage; the Slys are no rogues. Look in the
    As Kate this chamber with her princely gait?
    Beatrice, get you to heaven. Here's no place for you maids.' So  
  DEMETRIUS,             "    "   "

    stock, and freshly grow; then shall Posthumus end his miseries,

    What, shall our feast be kept with slaughtered men?
    And peace established between these realms.
    And make her bear the penance of her tongue?
  KING HENRY. Suffolk, arise. Welcome, Queen Margaret:
    A loyal and obedient subject is
    Our dance of custom round about the oak
  CLOWN. You must think this, look you, that the worm will do his
                                        [Sings in GONZALO'S ear]
  KING. Madam, not so; I do beseech you stay.
  TROILUS. Who, I? Alas, it is my vice, my fault!
    Behold another day break in the east;  
    Have you so soon forgot the entertainment
    Deep, hollow, treacherous, and full of guile,

    Of my child's love. I think she will be rul'd
    Who find in my exile the want of breeding,
    You may partake of any thing we say:
    Art thou not asham'd? But, sirrah, henceforth
    Another with his finger and his thumb
    Unless the Dauphin be in presence here,
  CASSIO. I know not.
  OLIVIA. A gentleman! What gentleman?
    Which, out of use and staled by other men,
  WARWICK. Away even now, or I will drag thee hence.
    But, he away, 'tis noble.
    Ever a friend whose thoughts more truly labour
    Containing the deposing of a king
    As half thy love? Why dost not speak to me?
  Old Man. I'll bring him the best 'parel that I have,
  CLIFFORD. Here's for my oath, here's for my father's death.
    Thou earth, thou! Speak.
An open place wear Swinstead Abbey
     Came then into my mind, and yet my mind
  Rom. So shalt thou show me friendship. Take thou that.
    And stand securely on their battlements
    have it. Men shall hold of me in capite; and we charge and
    Put rancors in the vessel of my peace
ADRIANA. How ill agrees it with your gravity
    Whose children he hath slain, their base throats tear
    She says she drinks no other drink but tears,
  Host. I am no thing to thank God on, I would thou shouldst know it!
    speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am easier to be play'd on than a
  KING EDWARD. Happy, indeed, as we have spent the day.
    Julia, farewell!                                  Exit JULIA  
  PANDARUS. Be moderate, be moderate.
    word to stay within. I like his money well. O, here he
    O Rosalind! these trees shall be my books,
    Shall more attend upon the coming space,
    Comes toward Dunsinane. Arm, arm, and out!  
  LADY MACBETH. What do you mean?
    Oft have I heard of sanctuary men;
  
    It may be thought we held him carelessly,
    Let me not think on't! Frailty, thy name is woman!-
    One syllable against him?
                 Who with dagger of lath,  
  CRESSIDA. Boldness comes to me now and brings me heart.

  POLIXENES. What means Sicilia?
    And shall that tongue give pardon to a slave?
    Find we a time for frighted peace to pant
  MRS. FORD. Nay, by th' mass, that he did not; he beat him
    besides the running banquet of two beadles that is to come.
    That, as my hand has open'd bounty to you,
    And our consent, for better trial of you,
    Against the word,
    And for this night we'll fast for company.
    well say that's a valiant flea that dare eat his breakfast on the
    Of all the under fiends. But if so be
    As for the brat of this accursed duke,

    That e'er I heard. Shall I produce the men?
  CELIA. How prove you that, in the great heap of your knowledge?
    But that he sees the Romans are but sheep.
    And follow you no further. Let me go.
    Let him be ransom'd. Never master had
  KING HENRY. Buckingham, doth York intend no harm to us,
    As true we are as flesh and blood can be.
    Which their own conscience seal'd them, laying by
    That have preserv'd her welfare in my blood
          In the spring time, &c.
    I have done the state some service, and they know't.
     Have, as I do remember, done me wrong.
     Mend when thou canst; be better at thy leisure;
    is the sin of covetousness. But, as you say, sir, let your bounty
    That makes him gasp, and stare, and catch the air,
    The end of this day's business ere it come!
    Who since I heard to be discomfited.
    Made a foul blot; if tall, a lance ill-headed;

    And curb this cruel devil of his will.
    But thieves unworthy of a thing so stol'n
  KING JOHN. If that the Dauphin there, thy princely son,
  LUCENTIO. I'll have no halves; I'll bear it all myself.
  SECOND MESSENGER. Fulvia thy wife is dead.
  POSTHUMUS. Which by their graces I will keep.
    That they'll take no offence at our abuse.
  ROSS. From Fife, great King,
  they appear to men like angels of light; light is an effect
  YORK. Let this dissension first be tried by fight,
    'Mong boys, grooms, and lackeys. But their pleasures
    And sanctify the numbers.
    Of heaven and men, her purposes, repented
    down! Throw them into Thames!               [Sound a parley]
    me thus, Ned? Must I marry your sister?
    Reply not to me with a fool-born jest;
    He is retir'd, to ripe his growing fortunes,
  MESSENGER. Whoever spoke it, it is true, my lord.
    If you will bless me, sir, and give me leave,
                            Alarum. Cry within, "Fly, fly, fly!"
    What letter is this same? What's here? 'To Silvia'!
    Our grace can make him so.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Thy news, Boyet?
    To seek their fortunes farther than at home,
    To old Baptista as a schoolmaster
    And his pure soul unto his captain, Christ,
    To tell him that his sword can never win
    Put forth toward Phrygia; and their vow is made
  CLEOPATRA. Call all his noble captains to my lord.
    Incapable of more, replete with you,
    outlustres many I have beheld, I could not but believe she
    How he comes o'er us with our wilder days,
    How much low peasantry would then be gleaned
    For Richard, in the view of many lords,
    out at her mistress' chamber window, bids me a thousand times
    I made a little fault in Great.
    What shall I do the while? where bide? how live?
    The manner and true order of the fight
  HOLOFERNES. I will repeat them: a, e, I-

    though absent; shook hands, as over a vast; and embrac'd as it
  MRS. FORD. Do so. Go tell thy master I am alone.  [Exit  
         March. Enter EDWARD, GEORGE, RICHARD, WARWICK,
    Runs posting on in Bolingbroke's proud joy,
    behalf I come to entreat your honour to supply;  who, having
    The feast is ready which the careful Titus
    And full as oft came Edward to my side
         Shame to him whose cruel striking
                            Enter Sailor.
  COMINIUS. He would not seem to know me.
    Is wicked meaning in a lawful deed,
    So are they all, all honorable men-
  DUCHESS. Dead life, blind sight, poor mortal living ghost,
                          Enter SOMERSET
  CLEOPATRA. Mine ear must pluck it thence.
  LARTIUS. I shall, my lord.
  PORTIA. God made him, and therefore let him pass for a man. In
  Leon. By my troth, my lord, I cannot tell what to think of it, but
    His corrigible neck, his face subdu'd
    Since I have entered into these wars.
    Is jollity for apes and grief for boys.
  Were it not sinful then striving to mend,
    Th' adornment of her bed; the arras, figures-
       Enter CAESAR; GALLUS, PROCULEIUS, MAECENAS, SELEUCUS,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
                Yea, brought her hither,
  And to enlighten thee gave eyes to blindness,

  PORTIA. If this were true, then should I know this secret.
  DUMAIN. Let us confess, and turn it to a jest.
    And since so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour,
  QUEEN. Then you, belike, suspect these noblemen
     Is it not well? What should you need of more?
  BISHOP OF ELY. To-morrow then I judge a happy day.
    but he will not pass his word for twopence that you are no fool.

    The payment of a hundred thousand crowns;
  
    Comes not that blood as modest evidence
    That borrow their behaviours from the great,
    Thou almost mak'st me waver in my faith,
  BUCKINGHAM. Now, my lord, what shall we do if we
    And thou, brave Oxford, wondrous well belov'd,
     And thereto add such reasons of your own
  BARDOLPH. You Banbury cheese!
  BRUTUS. How? I inform them!
    For in the shade of death I shall find joy-
  'Gainst death, and all-oblivious enmity
    And take deep traitors for thy dearest friends!
    Let not the heavens hear these tell-tale women
    With wine and feeding, we have suppler souls
    Remove you hence. I knew you at the first
    One day too late, I fear me, noble lord,
    That, though the truth of it stands off as gross
    As thou shalt think on prating whilst thou liv'st!
    Better ten thousand base-born Cades miscarry
  BEROWNE. Well, sir, be it as the style shall give us cause to climb
    The hearts of all that he did angle for;
    Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
    I like your silence; it the more shows off
    These three lead on this preparation
    Your generals after.
  ACHILLES. Come, come, enter my tent.
    sententious of it, of you and rosemary, that it would do you good
    He will awake my mercy, which lies dead;
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    reputation, who is thus like to be cozen'd with the semblance of

    But you at your sick service had a prince.
  APEMANTUS. There will little learning die, then, that day thou art
  TALBOT. Undaunted spirit in a dying breast!
  Or to turn white and swoon at tragic shows;
    Into one giant arm, it shall not force
      power
    The County's man. He left this ring behind him,
  POLIXENES. Fairly offer'd.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    I do not like their coming. Now I think on't,
    The first-begotten and the lawful heir
  ROSALINE. In private then.
    you were in a consumption.
    bondage of certain ribbons and gloves.
  Hor. My lord, I did;
  STEPHANO. So is mine. Do you hear, monster? If I should
  
    That have beheld the doing.
  SECOND LORD. Excellently.
    Then thus I thump it down.
  PETRUCHIO. And for that dowry, I'll assure her of
    prince as you are.
                 Enter FRIAR PETER and ISABELLA
    That apprehends no further than this world,
    There was more foolery yet, if could remember it.

  PISTOL. How now, Mephostophilus!
  PETRUCHIO. Come on, I say; and first begin with her.
    But that my master is abus'd. Some villain,
  ROSALIND. There were none principal; they were all like one another
    Where you are liberal of your loves and counsels,
    I will be so bold as to wear it in my cap till I see him once
    Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell,
    be thy will! What have we here?  [Taking up the child]  Mercy  
    I do beseech you, know me.
  Mar. It faded on the crowing of the cock.
    Are of two houses: lawful mercy

  Ham. O that this too too solid flesh would melt,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
            Cup us till the world go round!

    By an Athenian eunuch to the harp.'
                           Exeunt Goneril, [Edmund, and Oswald].
    Fell sorrow's tooth doth never rankle more
    Be it on lion, bear, or wolf, or bull,

    And ostentation of despised arms?
    which holy undertaking with most austere sanctimony she
    I tell you this: Caesar through Syria
    such estimable wonder overfar believe that, yet thus far I will
    To answer thy best pleasure; be't to fly,
  KING RICHARD. We thank you both; yet one but flatters us,
    the better for my foes.
    Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad
    Were thine without offense; and at my death
  Which in thy breast doth live, as thine in me,
    So, with two seeming bodies, but one heart;
    'Pardon' should be the first word of thy speech.
    That die unmarried ere they can behold
  NESTOR. Most wisely hath Ulysses here discover'd
    Ere you with grief had spoke and I had heard
    table-book, ballad, knife, tape, glove, shoe-tie, bracelet,
  CLEOPATRA. That's not so good. He cannot like her long.
    Will make or man or woman madly dote
                                            [They blindfold him]
    Some sudden mischief may arise of it;

    I'll ask him what he would. Did you call, sir?
                                                  Gives him a letter.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  ISABELLA. Peace and prosperity! Who is't that calls?
    read, my lord?
  FLAVIUS, tribune  
    I am no woman, I'll not swoon at it.
  Leon. Neighbours, you are tedious.

    To have you royally appointed as if

    Proud majesty a subject, state a peasant.
  Robbed others' beds' revenues of their rents.
    As your good flock shall prosper.
                     116
    Let's make the best of it.
  OTHELLO. Not a jot, not a jot.
    How now, my metal of India!
  GRATIANO. And I must to Lorenzo and the rest;
    The service that I truly did his life
    Which I have sworn to weed and pluck away.
  GLOUCESTER. But cloaks and gowns before this day a many.  
    Above their quantity.
    This 'To Apollo'; this 'To the God of War'-  
    your service. God be with my old master! He would not have spoke

    They may vex us with shot or with assault.  
    I am in your debt for your last exercise;
    language; for when lenity and cruelty play for a kingdom the
  ROSALIND. I do beseech your Grace,

  CLOTEN. I'll be reveng'd.
A room in the Garter Inn
     Who, with some other of the lord's dependants,
Enter SILVIA, VALENTINE, THURIO, and SPEED
  I sick withal the help of bath desired,
ACT_3|SC_5
    Digressing from the valour of a man;
  BARDOLPH. In bodily health, sir.
  Fal. Do thou amend thy face, and I'll amend my life. Thou art our
Scene II.
    And such a want-wit sadness makes of me
  Jul. But to be frank and give it thee again.
    That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
    the back and shoulder-shotten, near-legg'd before, and with a
    A mother, and a mistress, and a friend,
    To do him justice and revenge on you.
     Nay, get thee in. I'll pray, and then I'll sleep.
    For smoke and dusky vapours of the night,
    There was never a truer rhyme. Let us cast away nothing, for we
                    Re-enter the BISHOP OF ELY
  Better cheer may you have, but not with better heart.
SCENE II.
    When this advice is free I give and honest,
Enter Benvolio and Mercutio.
  SALISBURY. What other harm have I, good lady, done
Enter ANTONY, CAESAR, OCTAVIA between them
    Their kingdom's loss, my woeful banishment,
  SIR TOBY. Why, then, build me thy fortunes upon the basis of
    Having full scarce six thousand in his troop,
  FALSTAFF. My lord, I will not undergo this sneap without reply. You
      And thirty dozed moons with borrowed sheen
    As Hector's leisure and your bounties shall
     Bench by his side. [To Kent] You are o' th' commission,
    Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.
    But shift away. There's warrant in that theft
  Jul. I met the youthful lord at Laurence' cell
    Danger and disobedience in thine eye.  
    And then, in speaking, not to incur the last-
    Pewter and brass, and all things that belongs
    Out of the way, that your converse and business
Macbeth's castle.  Hautboys and torches.
    Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
    So stinkingly depending? Go mend, go mend.

  All tongues (the voice of souls) give thee that due,
    The other to enjoy by rage and war.
    And smell of calumny. I have begun,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  FRENCHMAN. Safely, I think. 'Twas a contention in public, which
    For fly he could not if he would have fled;
     would have none but knaves follow it, since a fool gives it.

    There to be crowned Richard's royal queen.
    Troilus. 'Twill be his death; 'twill be his bane; he cannot bear
    A precious thing! I had it from the Queen.
    But I do prophesy th' election lights  
    Until confirm'd, sign'd, ratified by you.
  CAESAR. I have said.

    I am asham'd that women are so simple
    You are contented to be led in triumph
    Write, write, that from the bloody course of war
  MARIA. Sweet Sir Toby, be patient for to-night; since the youth of
    yourself with them?
    Which we have done, whose answer would be death,
  That maidens' eyes stuck over all his face.
  WILLIAM. God rest you merry, sir.                         Exit  
    To the dark house and the detested wife.
    Shall I descend? And will you give me leave?
    On Thursday we ourselves will march. Our meeting
    And when mine oratory drew toward end
  On Helen's cheek all art of beauty set,
                       PARIS passes

    Hark! by the sound of drum you may perceive
    Yet am I sick for fear. Speak it again.
    That done, I will be walking on the works;
Enter two GENTLEMEN, at several doors

    Lend to this weight such lightness with their fear
  SATURNINUS. Proud and ambitious Tribune, canst thou tell?
  Lear. No.
    name, a traitor your degree, and the dungeon your place- a place
  IMOGEN. O! for such means,
    Sometime for three-foot stool mistaketh me;
    Fatal this marriage, cancelling your fame,
                            Lancaster.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Or in his eminence that fills it up,
                                                [Skirmish again]
      That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
    Never to hold it up again! The spirits
    Sweet York, sweet husband, be not of that mind.

    And makes my labours pleasures. O, she is
    Give the word through.                                Exeunt
    To worship shadows and adore false shapes,
  JULIA.  [Aside]  But love will not be spurr'd to what it loathes.
    And your great-uncle's, Edward the Black Prince,
  DUKE. He wants advice.
  SALISBURY. The colour of the King doth come and go
    A doctrine of obedience, and would gladly
    For Mariana's sake; but as he adjudg'd your brother-
    Not her own sinews. To end a tale of length,
    Alexander- God knows, and you know- in his rages, and his furies,
    Invites me in this churlish messenger.
                    Enter another GENTLEMAN
  SERVANT. My lord, there are certain nobles of the Senate newly
  GUIDERIUS. Why, worthy father, what have we to lose

  CARDINAL. This weighty business will not brook delay;
    Is not infected; but if one present  
    goodness that is cheap in beauty makes beauty brief in goodness;
    All that is mine I leave at thy dispose,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  IACHIMO. More particulars
  KING. Warwick! Gloucester! Clarence!
    And let no quarrel nor no brawl to come
    Which done, God take King Edward to his mercy,
    For your desire to know what is between us,
  ULYSSES. [Aside] Wit would be out of fashion.
    What, and my old Venetian friend, Salerio!
  BUCKINGHAM. My lord, whoever journeys to the Prince,
    Whom all France, with their chief assembled strength,
                                      Exit, and SOMERSET follows
    Spurns down her late beloved, all his dependants,
  IACHIMO. The heaviness and guilt within my bosom
    One all of luxury, an ass, a madman!
  And every one doth call me by my name.
    mere foolery; I did not mark it. I saw Mark Antony offer him a
  GLOUCESTER. How now, how now! What say the citizens?
  TRANIO. And tell us what occasion of import
  Profitless usurer why dost thou use
    Melodious birds sings madrigals;  
    plague upon this howling! They are louder than the
    Unto the French the dreadful judgment-day
    I came to her from Claudio, and desir'd her
    Is a sharp wit match'd with too blunt a will,
               Which native she doth owe.
                                                          Exeunt
    Or else my heart, concealing it, will break;
  HERMIA. I frown upon him, yet he loves me still.
    I'll be at charges for a looking-glass,
    Only to stick it in their children's sight
    It pays the hearing double recompense.
    Calpurnia's cheek is pale, and Cicero
    on thy choler; go about the fields with me through Frogmore;
                     14
  COSTARD. When would you have it done, sir?
  Gon. Ask me not what I know.                             Exit.
  TROILUS. O Cressida! but that the busy day,
                     80
    Take thou this vial, being then in bed,  
    By my regard, but kill'd none so. Camillo-
  CLEOPATRA. Help me away, dear Charmian; I shall fall.
    Such beastly shameless transformation,
    Shall be brought drunken forth, and I shall see
    His face's own margent did quote such amazes
    away thyself in paper shortly. What needs these feasts, pomps,  

    Back, foolish tears, back to your native spring!
    And that the Queen's kindred are made gentlefolks.
  Mer. I am hurt.
    Upright he held it, lords, that held it last.
    Fell slaughter on their souls. Heaven rest them now!
  Ben. O Romeo, Romeo, brave Mercutio's dead!
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    I'll hide my master from the flies, as deep
  Fal. I deny your major. If you will deny the sheriff, so; if not,
  SICINIUS. Nay, but his taunts!
         Tu-whit, Tu-who'- A merry note,


<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  DESDEMONA. Well, do your discretion.                   Exit Cassio.
    Would each to other, and all loves to both,
    Personates thee; and thy lopp'd branches point

    Yea, distaff-women manage rusty bills
    No, not to live. O nation miserable!  
    Methinks I so should term them- and the reverence
    flesh; and he must needs go that the devil drives.
    Of your own state take care. This dream of mine-
    Or shall we beat the stones about thine ears?
    Nor fear of bad success in a bad cause,
    By my troth, I am exceeding ill. Hey-ho!

    In spite of us or aught that we could do.
    But, O, the devil'-there the villain stopp'd;
    jealousy, comes me in the instant of our, encounter, after
    parrot, and yet the son of a woman! His industry is upstairs and
    yet opinion, a sovereign mistress of effects, throws a more safer
    The verier wag o' th' two?
    Perchance the Cardinal cannot make your peace;
    The better arm you to the sudden time
at another, LEONATUS POSTHUMUS following like a poor soldier.
    What will you do, now my necessity
    In such an honor named. What's more to do,
  THIRD WATCHMAN. Ay, but give me worship and quietness;
    I will redeem all this on Percy's head
                   Enter an armed SOLDIER
    Being no further enemy to you
  PURSUIVANT. The better that your lordship please to ask.
ACT II. Scene I.
  TITUS. The like to you, kind Varro.
    The crest of youth against your dignity.
  King. O, for two special reasons,
    fourscore ducats.  
  KATHARINE. Bid the music leave,
     France spreads his banners in our noiseless land,
  ANTONY. Nay, good my fellows, do not please sharp fate
    Do I shrink up.
    Or Cassio him, or each do kill the other,
    Was brow-bound with the oak. His pupil age
                                                     Exit Cinna.
    And see his shipwreck and his commonweal's.
    In qualities of the best. This man of thine
     For these domestic and particular broils
  ANTONIO. And how does your content
  ARMADO. I am ill at reck'ning; it fitteth the spirit of a tapster.
  BUCKINGHAM. Give me some little breath, some pause,
    You should have ta'en th' advantage of his choler
  Ham. On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares!
     Than for your lady's. You may gather more.
  CHARLES. Since, lords of England, it is thus agreed
    Will you prepare you for this masque to-night?
    Th' are come already from the christening.
     For (as I am a man) I think this lady
  
  BOY. Good grandsire, leave these bitter deep laments;
  Claud. If this were so, so were it utt'red.
    Brought hither Henry Hereford, thy bold son,

    He is all the mother's, from the top to toe.
    The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores,
    The gods throw stones of sulphur on me, if
                   Enter King and Polonius.
  MESSENGER. I met a courier, one mine ancient friend,
    Upon her wit doth earthly honour wait,
    I pour the helpless balm of my poor eyes.
    O villains, Chiron and Demetrius!
    And grows to something of great constancy,

  ULYSSES. Why stay we, then?
  CHIEF JUSTICE. I would his Majesty had call'd me with him.
  MESSENGER. My lord, my lord!                        [Knocking]
    being restrained to keep him from stumbling, hath been often  
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  SICINIUS. Answer to us.
    To those of mine!

    place. If the encounter acknowledge itself hereafter, it may
    And York, and impious Beaufort, that false priest,
    lady at leap-frog, or by vaulting into my saddle with my armour
    Yet heard too much of Phebe's cruelty.
                 and other Trojans, with attendants
    There's reason he should be displeas'd at it.  
    I have with exact view perus'd thee, Hector,
    an English kersey as be pil'd, as thou art pil'd, for a French
                      Enter a LORD
  VOLUMNIUS. What says my lord?
  ANTONY. Make me not offended
    With musics of all sorts, and songs compos'd
    What vane? What weathercock? Did you ever hear better?
    Will I not think of home, but follow arms.
    Call him to present trial. If he may
    brothers. Your If is the only peace-maker; much virtue in If.
  KING EDWARD. Have I a tongue to doom my brother's death,
    Who all this while hath revell'd in the night,
    He did inform the truth. But for our gentlemen,
  ALEXANDER. They say he is a very man per se,
    note. There is no hiding you in the house.
  CLOWN. No, madam, 'tis not so well that I am poor, though many of
    theoric of war in the knot of his scarf, and the practice in the
    The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
  SATURNINUS. Why art thou thus attir'd, Andronicus?
      before him; the axe with the edge towards him; halberds
  EMILIA. 'Las, what's the matter? What's the matter, husband?
    Their graces serve them but as enemies?
       Wind horns. Enter a LORD from bunting, with his train
    sooner confess; perchance, publicly, she'll be asham'd.
    nicer needs. The last was the greatest, but that I have not ended
    My son and I will have the wind of you:
    His wit set down to make his valour live.
    Than camels in their war, who have their provand
    And younger hearings are quite ravished;
             Nor mark prodigious, such as are
  DUKE. And what's her history?
  GUIDERIUS. Cloten, thou double villain, be thy name,
  LYSANDER. She sees not Hermia. Hermia, sleep thou there;
  WOLSEY. Be patient yet.
    love-songs for maids; so without bawdry, which is strange; with
    He will return; and hope I may that she,
    With this, my weapon drawn, I rush'd upon him,
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY, WARWICK, MONTAGUE, CLARENCE, OXFORD, and EXETER
    But they will quake and tremble all this day.
  being a very beastly creature, lays claim to me.
    To your high presence.
    A drop of patience; but, alas, to make me
    For so they phrase 'em-by their heralds challeng'd
  But no such roses see I in her cheeks,
    That's by me wounded. Both our remedies
    Something too wildly, and my father's precepts
    ambition, an envious emulator of every man's good parts, a secret
    Tying thine ear to no tongue but thine own!
    So should we save a valiant gentleman
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  HECTOR. How now! how now!
    The which hath been with scorn shov'd from the court,
    Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
    On him I lay that you would lay on me-
  KING RICHARD. Why, our battalia trebles that account;
    But they can see a sort of traitors here.
  CRESSIDA. What, and from Troilus too?
    bitterness of your galls; and we that are in the vaward of our
    And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.  
    How everything is chanced.                           Exeunt.
    In faith, my hand meant nothing to my sword.

    Tantaene animis coelestibus irae?
    But for his purpose in the coronation
  Besides, I have some business in the town.
    Much is your sorrow; mine ten times so much.
  Deep scars to save thy life; even for the blood

    That slew himself; and wise Laertes' son
  Ham. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten. A certain
 SIR TOBY. Th' art i' th' right. Go, sir, rub your chain with crumbs.
    father.
  MALVOLIO. 'You must amend your drunkenness'-
    And, to say truth, Verona brags of him
     Whether the three Worthies shall come in or no?
    Particular addition, from the bill
  CORIOLANUS. For them! I cannot do it to the gods;
    promise.
  That thou among the wastes of time must go,
    If law, authority, and power, deny not,
  IAGO. How now, what do you here alone?
  Who even but now come back again assured,
    And let us bathe our hands in Caesar's blood
                          Enter TAILOR
    Is there a murderer here? No-yes, I am.
    for a surgeon, some upon their wives left poor behind them, some
    Strange things I have in head that will to hand,
    You are a saucy boy. Is't so, indeed?
    To match with her that brings no vantages.
    He could not stay to pick them in a pile
    Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
    But were my worth as is my conscience firm,
  GLOUCESTER. Well guess'd, believe me; for that was my meaning.
    Sound drum and trumpets and to London all;  
    us? We have sport in hand.
    dinner. I am glad to see you, by my troth, Master Shallow.
    With hidden help and vantage, or that with both
  Thou art more lovely and more temperate:
    But nature to her bias drew in that.
    For I am arm'd so strong in honesty,
BUSHY and GREEN, prisoners
  MARCUS. Now let hot Aetna cool in Sicily,
  EVANS. 'Tis unreasonable. Will you take up your wife's
  VALENTINE. Yourself, sweet lady; for you gave the fire. Sir Thurio
  MENENIUS. So did he me; and he no more remembers his mother now
    With observation, the which he vents
Rome. The Capitol
    And so he plays his part. The sixth age shifts
    And so ingrateful you deny me that.
  SLENDER. And so must I, sir; we have appointed to dine with
    With four or five most vile and ragged foils,
  MONTANO. 'Zounds, I bleed still; I am hurt to the death.
  SIR TOBY. Here comes the little villain.
    For since dishonour traffics with man's nature,  
    Kate, my wooing is fit for thy understanding: I am glad thou
  ANTIGONUS. Their sacred wills be done! Go, get aboard;
    our unbitted lusts; whereof I take this, that you call love, to
  That did not better for my life provide,
    bear out a knave against an honest man, I have but a very little
  Than when it hath my added praise beside.
  SOOTHSAYER. At mine own house, good lady.
                  Before an alehouse on a heath
    Tear-falling pity dwells not in this eye.

    To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever  
    But thou mistakes me much to think I do.
  Leon. So say I. Methinks you are sadder.
    Which for Antenor we deliver you;
  ANNE. Thou wast provoked by thy bloody mind,
    I am as innocent as you.'
    Exceeding the nine sibyls of old Rome:
  NYM. I am not Barbason: you cannot conjure me. I have an humour to
  EARL OF WARWICK
    But what my power might else exact, like one
  Mer. And, to sink in it, should you burthen love-
    Demetrius, I'll avouch it to his head,
  'Tis holy sport to be a little vain
    And by that knot looks proudly on the crown,
  LUCENTIO. While you, sweet dear, prove mistress of my heart.
  SAY. Ay, but I hope your Highness shall have his.
  LAUNCE. Well, I will go.                                Exeunt
    afterwards DUKE OF YORK
    on't; and come again to supper to him of purpose to have him
    Good wombs have borne bad sons.
    Though it be honest, it is never good
    And not believes himself. Down with the nose,
  PORTIA. Thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture
    Yet, to supply the ripe wants of my friend,
    This is a letter of your own device.
    With ears that sweep away the morning dew;
    I would say the truth; but to accuse him so,
    Tempests are kind, and salt waves fresh in love!        Exit
    And lead thy daughter to a conqueror's bed;
    He swore consent to your succession,
     So should my thoughts be sever'd from my griefs,
    Unto our brother France, and to our sister,
    The time has been, my senses would have cool'd
    That mounts no higher than a bird can soar.
      with TAMORA and her two Sons, and AARON the Moor
    Whoe'er I woo, myself would be his wife.
    That with his peremptory 'shall,' being but
    that, 'twill fly with the smoke out at the chimney.
    God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
  LUCIUS. Good uncle, take you in this barbarous Moor,
    As curst, as harsh, and horrible to hear,

    'O sir,' says answer 'at your best command,
  Dog. Pray write down Borachio. Yours, sirrah?
  Serv. You shall have none ill, sir; for I'll try if they can lick
            Thou canst not hit it, hit it, hit it,
    My very friend, hath got this mortal hurt
  FIRST LORD. I am sick of that grief too, as I understand how all
    Can censure scape; back-wounding calumny
    Hath turn'd my feigned prayer on my head
    Thou art a banish'd man, and here art come
    But as an honour snatch'd with boist'rous hand;

  Fool. Cry you mercy, I took you for a joint-stool.
  DENNY. Ay, my good lord.
    Or if thou wilt hold longer argument,
    Let every word weigh heavy of her worth
                                                 Exeunt citizens
    father dearly; yet I hate not Orlando.
    Shall I be tempted to infringe my vow
    Bring me the fairest creature northward born,
    The King and his companions; warily
  ANNE. With all my heart; and much it joys me too
    Enclosed were they with their enemies.  
    And we for fear compell'd to shut our shops.
    You put me to forget a lady's manners
  BONA, sister to the French Queen
    you, what thinks he of our estate?
  ROSALIND. Young man, have you challeng'd Charles the wrestler?

      To those fresh morning drops upon the rose,
    Deny't again.
    'Tis but the shadow of a wife you see,
    To die upon the bed my father died,
    Be sure of it. Give me the ocular proof;
    Nor by th' matter which your heart prompts you,

  OTHELLO.                     I do beseech you,
    Love's reason's without reason. The bier at door,
  HELENA. So is running away, when fear proposes the safety: but the
    What then he said, so he unsay it now.
  MENENIUS. For one poor grain or two!
    Devoured by the unexpected flood.                 [The KING dies]
  Ham. I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players. Mark it.-
    A good and virtuous nature may recoil
    this I am not certain.
    To cureless ruin. I stand here for law.

    W'have frighted with our trumpets; so, 'tis clear,
LUCIANA. And may it be that you have quite forgot
    Even like a man new haled from the rack,
    Ran in my veins- I was a gentleman;
  Thou by thy dial's shady stealth mayst know,
    Whose father slew my father, he shall die.
  COSTARD. I was taken with none, sir; I was taken with a damsel.
      With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
  PISTOL. O, Signieur Dew should be a gentleman.
     You, you, sirrah, where's my daughter?
  FALSTAFF. Away, Bardolph! saddle my horse. Master Robert Shallow,
Elsinore. A churchyard.
     knaves, thieves, and treachers by spherical pre-dominance;

  TIMON. I shall accept them fairly. Let the presents
  BASTARD. All Kent hath yielded; nothing there holds out
                                                         Exeunt.
    thought, conceiv'd of spleen, and born of madness; that blind
  1. Play. Ay, my lord.
    I am not mad: this hair I tear is mine;
    The heart of woman is! O Brutus,
    And batters down himself. What should I say?
SCENE VIII.
  CASSIO. Iago? O, I am spoil'd, undone by villains!
  Here comes my man; I think he brings the money.
    If you were men, as men you are in show,

    Forgive my tyranny; but do not say,
  IAGO.                                 Beshrew him for't!
  MENENIUS. You have made good work,
    A bribe to pay my sword. I do refuse it,
  Against your yet ungalled estimation
  LUCIUS. But what from Rome?
  PAROLLES. Why under Man?
    My scutcheon plain declares that I am Alisander-
    How now! Why look'st thou pale? Why tremblest thou?
  THIRD WATCHMAN. But say, I pray, what nobleman is that
  DIANA. I'll put in bail, my liege.
     That, if my speech offend a noble heart,
    Ercles' vein, a tyrant's vein: a lover is more condoling.  
    And these dread curses, like the sun 'gainst glass,
  To the wide world and all her fading sweets:
    they need no other penance. That fire-drake did I hit three
    Good morrow, Casca. Caius Ligarius,

      O, could their master come and go as lightly,
  TITUS. How now! Has sorrow made thee dote already?
    To entrap the wisest. Therefore, thou gaudy gold,
    And I- like one lost in a thorny wood
    There is nor flying hence nor tarrying here.
  POMPEY. Truly, sir, in my poor opinion, they will to't then. If
  CLEOPATRA. He words me, girls, he words me, that I should not
    I am not of your wrong. Therefore in him
  BRUTUS. Sir, those cold ways,
    their hearts but they will effect. God be prais'd for my
                          Enter FENTON
                         and IRAS
    That he enchants societies into him,
    That stabb'd me in the field by Tewksbury.  
    But mark'd him not a word. O, he is as tedious
    Thou liv'st; report me and my cause aright  


    boy with her! Good plots! They are laid; and our revolted  
    But do not so, I love thee in such sort,
                   Enter ARMADO, for HECTOR
    More than his reason. But 'tis a common proof
    Standing before the sun of Bolingbroke
    Which she, with pretty and with swimming gait  

    Mad'st quick conveyance with her good aunt Anne.
  ROSS. Be confident to speak, Northumberland.
  PETRUCHIO. Then show it me.

  Hor. Not I, my lord, by heaven!
    For she did print your royal father off,
  FIRST SENATOR. To unbuild the city, and to lay all flat.
    Not as protector, steward, substitute,
      swearing
  SHALLOW. Indeed, Master Ford, this is not well, indeed.
  Marg. Of what, lady? of speaking honourably? Is not marriage
    Leaving their earthly parts to choke your clime,

  MRS. PAGE. You little Jack-a-Lent, have you been true to us?
    And with th' encorporal air do hold discourse?
  CROMWELL. To his own hand, in's bedchamber.
    Or, earth, gape open wide and eat him quick,
    By any voice or order of the field?

    do, crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves all;
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    But be of comfort.
  FALSTAFF. Master Brook, I will not lie to you; I was at her
  Wife. Speak briefly, can you like of Paris' love?
    The stamp of nobleness in any person
THE FIRST PART OF KING HENRY THE FOURTH
    Take then thy bond, take thou thy pound of flesh;
  JULIA. Almost as well as I do know myself.
    All this is comfort; wherefore weep I then?

    fustian rascal.  
    If she be in her chamber or your house,
  Fool. And I'll go to bed at noon.
  By th' way we met my wife, her sister, and a rabble more
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM
    His deputy anointed in His sight,
  PROTEUS. Then in dumb silence will I bury mine,
  BELARIUS. Sir,

    Five times in that ere once in our five wits.
    Fairies use flow'rs for their charactery.
  Bene. I pray you, what is he?
  Kent. Good my lord, soothe him; let him take the fellow.
    I, and I am sunburnt. I may sit in a corner and cry 'Heigh-ho for
  BASTARD. So, on my soul, he did, for aught he knew.
    To train ten thousand English to their side;
    Some of the chiefest princes of the Goths;
    devil i' th' old play, that every one may pare his nails with a
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  ROSALINE. You must he purged too, your sins are rack'd;
    Thou shalt be punish'd for thus frighting me,
SCENE 6.
    Had I as many sons as I have hairs,  
    Out of the chamber with her! Were I a tyrant,

  CHIEF JUSTICE. What is the matter? Keep the peace here, ho!
    With all appliances and means to boot,
    That wisdom, loyalty, and mere dislike
          In your waking shall be shown:
    Most reverend and grave elders, to desire
    'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'
    Gold were as good as twenty orators,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Groom, and other Attendants
  MARIA. If you desire the spleen, and will laugh yourselves into
    For she commanding all, obey'd of none.  
    Ha, you gods! why this? What, this, you gods? Why, this
    confident brow, nor the throng of words that come with such more
    That violates the smallest branch herein.
    But virtue, as it never will be mov'd,
  AJAX. Do not chafe thee, cousin;
    How can these things in me seem scorn to you,  
    Our corn's to reap, for yet our tithe's to sow.       Exeunt
    'Twere better she were kiss'd in general.
    But, when we know the grounds and authors of it,
  TIMON. Dost thou, or dost thou not, heaven's curse upon thee!
  WARWICK. What news, my friend?
    shall have my music for nothing.
  AUSTRIA. Lady Constance, peace!
  DUKE. Hath he not a son?
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  HASTINGS. With him, we may.

            That could do no vengeance to me.'
    As you, Prince Paris, nothing but heavenly business
    Where is the enemy? Are you lords o' th' field?
  JAQUES DE BOYS. He hath.
  LOVELL. They must either,
    With tokens thus and thus; averring notes
    'Nearest his heart,' those are the very words.
    To you that chok'd it. Let be call'd before us

  ARVIRAGUS. [To IMOGEN] Brother, stay here.
    Cassio.  
    Plead my successive title with your swords.
    Since you set up your rest 'gainst remedy.  
    Detain no jot, I charge thee. Write to him-
    And that his lady mourns at his disease;
    Do not you know my lady's foot by th' squier,
    And, O, what better matter breeds for you  
    The high promotion of his Grace of Canterbury;
    That breath'd upon the earth a Christian;
    And there the snake throws her enamell'd skin,
  PAGE. You must speak louder; my master is deaf.
    you will not touch the true prince; no- fie!
    But those as sleep and think not on their sins,
  CASSIO. I humbly thank you for't. [Exit Iago.] I never knew
    On him so near us? This needs must be a practice.
    Oft have you heard me wish for such an hour,
    bear a good opinion of my knowledge, insomuch I say I know you
ACT_5|SC_1

  ANNE. You cannot show me.

    Now are they but one lamp, one light, one sun.
  HELEN. He hangs the lip at something. You know all, Lord Pandarus.
    preparation overthrown.
    That rounds the mortal temples of a king
  Ere beauty's dead fleece made another gay:  

    their hearts that for their tongues to be silent and not confess
    We are your guest tonight.
    The fault's your own.

    And it is thought abroad that 'twixt my sheets
    There is a law in each well-order'd nation
    Ever in France shall be kept festival.
  DUCHESS. Not yet, I thee beseech.
Enter Octavius, Antony, and their Army.
    To get slips of them.
    Know, if you kill me for my fault, I should

    Lord.  
    All length is torture. Since the torch is out,
    Where thou and I henceforth may never meet.
    The vaulty heaven so high above our heads.

    What, all my pretty chickens and their dam
    would give you some violets, but they wither'd all when my father
    But poison'd flattery? O, be sick, great greatness,
  ANTONY. No;
  PEMBROKE. They say King John, sore sick, hath left the field.
    That it might please you to give quiet pass
    Wednesday in Wheeson week, when the Prince broke thy head for
    cardmaker, by transmutation a bear-herd, and now by present
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Send to her, by the man that slew her  
  HERMIA, daughter to Egeus, in love with Lysander
  SHALLOW. It is well said, in faith, sir; and it is well said indeed
    Like to a censer in a barber's shop.
    The shrug, the hum or ha, these petty brands
    would not have you acquainted with tapsters: they will draw you,
by William Shakespeare
    In this dull world, which in thy absence is
A street. Thunder and lightning.
with him MARCUS, YOUNG LUCIUS, and other gentlemen,
    My hand hath been but idle; let it serve
    would think his mother's milk were scarce out of him.
                 Enter QUINCE as the PROLOGUE
  MACDUFF. He has no children. All my pretty ones?
    Out of this silence yet I pick'd a welcome;
  SOOTHSAYER. You shall be yet far fairer than you are.
    And call her hourly mistress. Who was with him?

    The mighty sender, doth he prize you at.

    And all his lands and goods confiscated.  
  LUCILIUS. Only I yield to die.
  LAUNCE. Ay, sir; the other squirrel was stol'n from me by the
  MOTH. [Aside] To prove you a cipher.
  AUTOLYCUS. A footman, sweet sir, a footman.
  CRESSIDA. So do all men, unless they are drunk, sick, or have no
    I had thought t'have held it poor; but since my lord
    And he ended the market.
    And take his bottle from him. When that's gone
    Frighting her pale-fac'd villages with war

PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    And spit upon my Jewish gaberdine,

    I tell thee, Pole, when in the city Tours
  CLOTEN, son to the Queen by a former husband

    He that is robb'd, not wanting what is stol'n,
    Demetrius, and Egeus, go along;
  PUCELLE. Decrepit miser! base ignoble wretch!
        WESTMORELAND, EXETER, and others, with red roses in  
    lover, and the most unworthy of her you call Rosalind, that may
    is soon shot.'
  ULYSSES. You shake, my lord, at something; will you go?
    With hope to find the like event in love
  TITANIA. Perchance till after Theseus' wedding-day.

  MOON. All that I have to say is to tell you that the lanthorn is  

     To bid my king and master aye good night.  
  IAGO. Who's there? Whose noise is this that cries on murther?
    My substance should be statue in thy stead.
  FREDERICK. More villain thou. Well, push him out of doors;
  TALBOT. Bring forth the body of old Salisbury
    Climbing my walls in spite of me the owner,
    Is Romeo slaught'red, and is Tybalt dead?
    And the late dignities heap'd up to them,
    or else you may be marvellously mistook.
ANGELO. Nay, come, I pray you, sir, give me the chain;
    Thou mightst be freed?
  PRINCE JOHN. Go, my lord,

    In differences so mighty. If she be

  Beat. For them all together, which maintain'd so politic a state of
     Whose mind and mine I know in that are one,
  MRS. FORD. Go to, then; we'll use this unwholesome
  OTHELLO.              Bid her come hither; go.         Exit Emilia.
    And, Being no more in debt to years than thou,

  MALVOLIO. This is much credit to you.
    Match'd not the high perfection of my loss.  
    In thee't had been good service. Thou must know
    Nor you, son Dorset; Buckingham, nor you:
    Which we in justice cannot well deny,
  Pedro. The former Hero! Hero that is dead!  
    the corrupt deputy scaled. The maid will I frame and make fit for
    Why, thou silly gentleman!
    in France.
    And lift my soul to heaven. Lead on, a God's name.
        with a knife, and LAVINIA, with a basin
                  Enter PANDULPH
    Is not more loath'd than an effeminate man
    how giddily 'a turns about all the hot-bloods between fourteen
    Touching the weal o' th' common, you shall find
    Upon th' enraged soldiers in their spoil,
    others how they should prepare.
  Lear. With him!
  AUTOLYCUS. Now, had I not the dash of my former life in me, would
    Away, go; they say there is divinity in odd numbers, either
   heard of the proclamation, have you?
    war-like, courtlike, and learned preparations.
  SIR TOBY. Marry, hang thee, brock!
Scene III.
  SECOND LORD. Here 'tis.
    We never yet made doubt but Rome was ready
    This seal'd-up oracle, by the hand deliver'd
    Come therefore, let's about it speedily.              Exeunt

     Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder,
    If this be error and upon me proved,
    Before we reckon with your several loves
    In thrilling region of thick-ribbed ice;
  LADY MACBETH. Woe, alas!
  HOST. Now, my young guest, methinks you're allycholly; I pray you,
  LORENZO. Even such a husband  
    You scarce can right me throughly then to say
    thus?
    And all their minds transfigur'd so together,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    letters; I know not which is which.

    I am no traitor's uncle; and that word 'grace'
    If thou vouchsafe them. But if not, then know
    hold it a sin to match in my kinred.
    Which we disdain should tetter us, yet sought
  LAFEU. I would it were not notorious. Was this gentlewoman the
    Than such a Roman.
Enter CAIUS and RUGBY
    I learn'd in Worcester, as I rode along,  
  FIRST KEEPER. Forbear awhile; we'll hear a little more.
    lips that their breaths embraced together. Villainous thoughts,
    And 'tis no marvel, be is so humorous.
    brows.
                                      [He descends. She ariseth]
  GLOUCESTER. Thou art reverend  
  DUKE. What, I prithee, might be the cause?
  CAESAR. I do not know, Maecenas. Ask Agrippa.
    As punishment for his most wicked life.          Exeunt some
    I bid them that did love their country's good
    If this be not that you look for, I have more to say,
  Laer. Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
    this preservative, of no better report than a horse-drench. Is he
    And so he vanish'd. Then came wand'ring by
    his own shadow this half hour. Observe him, for the love of
    If ever been where bells have knoll'd to church,
    But if black scandal or foul-fac'd reproach
    Enough to stifle such a villain up

    And here's a lord-come knights from east to west
  HELENA. Take this purse of gold,  
    Like a full-acorn'd boar, a German one,
    Bushy, what news?  
    So much for that. Now for our Irish wars.
SCENE II.
  BRUTUS. What now, Lucilius, is Cassius near?
  SUFFOLK. Which of the peers
  Peto. Falstaff! Fast asleep behind the arras, and snorting like a
     When he, conjunct, and flattering his displeasure,
  Bene. Fare you well, boy; you know my mind. I will leave you now to
    thou diest in thine unthankfulness, and thine ignorance makes
  Nurse. Marry, bachelor,
  Then need I not to fear the worst of wrongs,
    To hopeless restitution, so he might
  LUCIUS. I am sorry, Cymbeline,
    And if these four Worthies in their first show thrive,
      CAESAR, the other way. After their going in is heard
     Would he deny his letter? I never got him.
    Thus are my blossoms blasted in the bud,
    Rue, even for ruth, here shortly shall be seen,
   Exeunt.
  Her. Again!                                     Third trumpet.

    Sir Proteus, to wreath your arms like a malcontent; to relish a
    Weeke weeke!
    To think upon her woes, I do protest
  GEORGE, DUKE OF CLARENCE,
    Stood on th' extremest verge of the swift brook,

    Have you a ruffian that will swear, drink, dance,
  Hot. Lord Mortimer, and cousin Glendower,

    My tongue should stumble in mine earnest words,
    For nature crescent does not grow alone
  VIRGILIA. 'Tis not to save labour, nor that I want love.
  ORLANDO. A man that had a wife with such a wit, he might say 'Wit,
    He is an absolute master.
  DUKE. The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good; the
    If he were known alive?
                            Enter COMINIUS
  Host. Nay, my lord, he call'd you Jack and said he would cudgel

    never did such deeds in arms as I have done this day. I have paid  
    them both, his Majesty out of a self-gracious remembrance did

    Finely put on!
    Wait you on him, I charge you, as becomes,
    Set on there! Never was a war did cease,
    And, look when I am King, claim thou of me
    Aiming, belike, at your interior hatred
  CANIDIUS. With news the time's with labour and throes forth
                 Or in the heart or in the head,
  BRUTUS. And after that he came, thus sad, away?
    There's a trim rabble let in: are all these
    testament which argues a great sickness in his judgment that
    to his master's old tables, his note-book, his counsel-keeper.
The British camp near Dover.

  GLOUCESTER. Thou and thy brother both shall buy this treason
    A very horse that has he knows not what!  
  Beat. Yea, 'Light o' love' with your heels! then, if your husband

    Form such another? This is the very top,
  SHALLOW. Nay, she must be old; she cannot choose but be old;
    If that thy gentry, Britain, go before
    Beguil'd me to the very heart of loss.
  LAFEU. Of all the learned and authentic fellows-
    fight; CADE falls] O, I am slain! famine and no other hath slain
    Or may I never-
    When truth kills truth, O devilish-holy fray!

  ROSS. Where is Duncan's body?
    warrant,
    Their lips were four red roses on a stalk,
    Even so it was with me when I was young.

  YORK. That face of his the hungry cannibals
  FORD. You heard what this knave told me, did you not?
  CLEOPATRA. That head, my lord?
  VALENTINE. How painted? and how out of count?
Alarum. Enter RICHARD and RICHMOND; they fight; RICHARD is slain.
    And as I earnestly did fix mine eye
         within, LA PUCELLE, CHARLES, BASTARD, ALENCON,
    nothing in the world at his book; I pray you ask him some
    No man alive can love in such a sort
    I have't. It is engender'd. Hell and night
    Do execution on my flesh and blood.
    For first was he contract to Lady Lucy-
    Give us some music; and, good cousin, sing.
         Such have but a shadow's bliss.
  KING. I fear, too much.
  SICINIUS. Come, what talk you of Marcius?
  FIRST MURDERER. Zounds, 'tis even now at my elbow,
     What is your study?
  FALSTAFF.  [To ROBIN]  Hold, sirrah; bear you these letters
  Ham. No such matter! I will not sort you with the rest of my
    Were I a common laugher, or did use
    My Lord of Canterbury, and got your leave

    With spur we heat an acre. But to th' goal:
  And scarcely greet me with that sun thine eye,


    He passes.
    Not to deny this imposition,
  NERISSA. They would be better, if well followed.
  AUTOLYCUS. I know you are now, sir, a gentleman born.
    Thy kinsmen, and thy friends, I'll have more lives
  2. Serv. Ay, boy, ready.
    What here y' have heard to her.
  ARMADO. Why tough signior? Why tough signior?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
Sound retreat. Shout. Enter AGAMEMNON, AJAX, MENELAUS, NESTOR, DIOMEDES,
    To insinuate, flatter, bow, and bend my knee.
    Francis. They take it already upon their salvation that, though
  APEMANTUS. Thou know'st I do; I call'd thee by thy name.
    But tell me, wench, how will the world repute me
    To plead for that which I would not obtain,
    Have with my knife carved in Roman letters
  TALBOT. He fables not; I hear the enemy.
  ALL. A heavy sight!
    detraction at your heels than fortunes before you.
    To know what willing ransom he will give.
    monarch! You may as well go about to turn the sun to ice with

  ESCALUS. How! Know you where you are?
    We left them all at home. But we are soldiers;
    Syria, Cilicia, and Phoenicia. She  
    I will ask Antony. Sir, sir, thou art so leaky
    supplication?
  TIMON. Mine honest friend,
    That on himself such murd'rous shame commits.
    Him caper upright like a wild Morisco,
    And rouse from sleep that fell anatomy
    Be well avenged, or till another Caesar
  And let that pine to aggravate thy store;
    Hath taught us how to cherish such high deeds,
  TRANIO. And is the bride and bridegroom coming home?  
    Have steep'd their galls in honey, and do serve you

    For we have now no thought in us but France,
    How we may steal from hence; and for the gap
    a naked blind boy in her naked seeing self? It were, my lord, a  
    With oaths of love, at last- if promise last-
                                                         Exeunt.
    Shall manifest me rightly. Is it they?
    And none so poor to do him reverence.
    tott'ring in the balance that I could neither believe nor
  ARMADO. I know where it is situate.
    That you might kill your stomach on your meat
    Ere stay behind this business.
  Lear. What canst tell, boy?
  ISABELLA. I went
  GLOUCESTER. Well, Suffolk, thou shalt not see me blush
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Sans fable, she herself revil'd you there.
    By such a day and hour.

  For to no other pass my verses tend,
    That I may dew it with my mournful tears;
    In sooth, I would you were a little sick,
    And for your love to her lead apes in hell.
     To your professed bosoms I commit him;
                             Re-enter MARIA
  KING JOHN. Philip, what say'st thou to the Cardinal?
     Pluck out his poor old eyes; nor thy fierce sister

    Use all the observance of civility
    and, wooing, she should grant? and will you persever to enjoy
    Fly from the field. Then was that noble Worcester
    seeming warrant for it; it hath not moved him at all.
    With opportunity of sharp revenge
    Come down and welcome me to this world's light;  
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    A lightning before death. O, how may I

    Have earnestly implor'd a general peace

    read it at more advantage. There let him sleep till day. I'll to
    While shameful hate sleeps out the afternoon.
    Alas the day, how loath you are to offend daylight! An 'twere
  GLOUCESTER. And did they so?
    Hath no self-love; nor he that loves himself
    That ever fell upon this cursed earth.
    At upper end o' th' table, now i' th' middle;
    Courage and hope both teaching him the practice-
    Bianca, stand aside- poor girl! she weeps.
    child at fifty, to whom Herod of Jewry may do homage. Find me to
    I'll frush it and unlock the rivets all
    Burns under feigned ashes of forg'd love
SCENE III.
    Cheer'd up the drooping army, and himself,
    besides, they have burned and carried away all that was in the
    As that of true and faithful Juliet.
    Who told me, in the field at Tewksbury
    The cause betwixt her and this great offender.
    not open;
    Can it not do and undo? I will make
  BERTRAM. My gracious sovereign,
    Than Cressid borne from Troy.
London. Before the Boar's Head Tavern, Eastcheap
  MARCIUS. Come I too late?
    Unless he live until he be a man.
    Where others tell steps with me.
  Claud. O, ay!-[Aside to Pedro] Stalk on, stalk on; the fowl sits.
    will I cause these of Cyprus to mutiny, whose qualification shall
    The enemy comes on in gallant show;  
  CYMBELINE. Bind the offender,
    Rebell'd against the belly; thus accus'd it:
    France, thou mayst hold a serpent by the tongue,
    I'll sort some other time to visit you.              [Going]
  And many such-like liberties of sin;
  IACHIMO. Good sir, we must,
  Osw. Out, dunghill!
    And raise some special officers of night.
    Hast thou the flower there? Welcome, wanderer.
    We set the axe to thy usurping root;
    Which thou hast whetted on thy stony heart,
  CRESSIDA. Hector was gone; but Helen was not up.
  That I in your sweet thoughts would be forgot,
    My child is yet a stranger in the world,
    forest yield anything savage, I will either be food for it or
    That Falstaff at that oak shall meet with us,
  YORK. What, with five thousand men?
  TIMON. What dost thou think 'tis worth?
    In this hot trial more than we of France;
  Poins. Good morrow, sweet Hal. What says Monsieur Remorse? What  
    At Patrick's cell this even; and there she was not.
    That, from her working, all his visage wann'd,
  ROSALIND. Yes, faith, will I, Fridays and Saturdays, and all.
The field of battle.
                            Exeunt. Manent Benedick and Claudio.
     From what you rightly are.

    Who hath reliev'd you?
  TROILUS. Fly not; for shouldst thou take the river Styx
    With character too gross, is writ on Juliet.

  SUFFOLK. Madam, 'tis true; and were't not madness then
    That with the plume; 'tis a most gallant fellow.

  GOBBO. Here's my son, sir, a poor boy-
    And drive the English forth the bounds of France.
  That heavy Saturn laughed and leaped with him.
  KATHERINE. Les dames et demoiselles pour etre baisees devant leur
SCENE 2.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Wars hath not wasted it, for warr'd he hath not,
  SECOND SERVANT. Nay, I knew by his face that there was something in
    To draw conditions of a friendly peace,
    To wish him wrestle with affection
  And, I think, if my breast had not been made of faith,
  CHARLES. Come, where is this young gallant that is so desirous to
    Stifle the villain whose unstanched thirst
    pick'd out of ten thousand.
  CELIA. And mine to eke out hers.
  AUTOLYCUS. Whether it like me or no, I am a courtier. Seest thou
    And made their bends adornings. At the helm
    Nor never come in vizard to my friend,
    it, is a gentlemanlike offer.
    whole wealth of thy wit in an instant? I pray thee understand a
Bohemia. The palace of POLIXENES
    And these breed honour. That is honour's scorn
    before I came to Clement's Inn.
    That hath revolted wives, the tenth of mankind
    Was tim'd with dying cries. Alone he ent'red
    I am the sea; hark how her sighs do blow.
  FORD. I beseech you, heartily, some of you go home with me  
    And held in idle price to haunt assemblies
    But this most cruel usage of your Queen-
     Think'st thou that duty shall have dread to speak
    I warrant they have made peace with Bolingbroke.
     Is such as basest and contemn'dest wretches
    O mechante fortune! Do not run away.

  ANTONY. Come, then; for with a wound I must be cur'd.  
    come to that!
    Doors that were ne'er acquainted with their wards
    'Tis in my head to do my master good:
  ACHILLES. I know not; 'tis put to lott'ry. Otherwise. He knew his
Enter POET and PAINTER
    And you will rather show our general louts
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Thou art deceiv'd. 'Tis not thy southern power
  BRUTUS. Being mov'd, he will not spare to gird the gods.
    They call'd us, for our fierceness, English dogs;
    A dram of poison, such soon-speeding gear
    note from the Volscian state, to find you out there. You have
    What shall be done with him? What is your plot?
    Berowne they call him; but a merrier man,
    And grapple with him ere he come so nigh.

  FALSTAFF. Good Master Brook, I desire more acquaintance
    My woeful self up in a mournful house,
    I'll tell you true; I'll call to you.
  My present business calls me from you now.

  HELENA. But by the ear, that hears most nobly of him;
    affliction.
    And out of her own goodness make the net
    Canst thou, when thou command'st the beggar's knee,
  Queen. I doubt it is no other but the main,
                                         [Trumpet sounds within]
    Came to this vault to die, and lie with Juliet.
    Stood smiling to behold his lion's whelp
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. At length her Grace rose, and with
    Ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears,
  With the annexions of fair gems enriched,
    She prizes not such trifles as these are.
    as good as my word. He will bear you easily and reins well.
    And that beyond commission; and I find it,
    The cloth of honour over her are four barons

    For, ladies, we will every one be mask'd;
    Therefore no dancing, girl; some other sport.

    When you depart from him, but, soft and low,
  IMOGEN. [Kneeling] Your blessing, sir.
    linen with thee when thou keepest not racket there; as thou hast

    That life is better life, past fearing death,
  Ink would have seemed more black and damned here!  
  CLEOPATRA. Hear the ambassadors.
    Since 'a could draw a sword, and is ill school'd
    That, when the greatest stroke of fortune falls,
    For government, though high, and low, and lower,
    Go where you will, the King shall be commanded;

    Where nothing can proceed that toucheth us
    Doth all the winter-time, at still midnight,
  WOLSEY. It must be himself then.
  Prince. Well, how then? Come, roundly, roundly.
    The King is render'd lost.
    Contagious fogs; which, falling in the land,
  MACBETH. I'll fight, 'til from my bones my flesh be hack'd.
  CAESAR. What, Octavia?
    No deeper wrinkles yet? Hath sorrow struck
  MRS. PAGE. Nay, but he'll be here presently; let's go dress
    For thou mayst see a sunshine and a hail
  IAGO.                          Filth, thou liest!
    more honour some were away.
  LEONTES. Once more, take her hence.
  THOMAS, DUKE OF CLARENCE
    To say I have done no harm -What are these faces?
    awl. I am indeed, sir, a surgeon to old shoes; when they are in
    I have in equal balance justly weigh'd  
    the second, and so the third. Yonder they lie; the poor old man,
    And fellow'st nothing. Then 'tis very credent
    The shot of accident nor dart of chance
    Which I have wond'red at. In hope it shall not,
    To be again displac'd; which to avoid,
    his kibe.- How long hast thou been a grave-maker?
     Our foster nurse of nature is repose,
    give her two.
    The mortal gate of th' city, which he painted
  KEEPER. No marvel, lord, though it affrighted you;
  POMPEY. Know, then,

  MESSENGER. 'Tis Alcibiades, and some twenty horse,
  John. Will it serve for any model to build mischief on?
    by-room while I question my puny drawer to what end be gave me

    In a great pool a swan's nest. Prithee think
    Hath proudly flow'd in vanity till now.
  DESDEMONA. I do not think there is any such woman.

    And in the porches of my ears did pour
    Prince John, your son, doth kiss your Grace's hand.
  CLOWN. If you have any music that may not be heard, to't again;
  To yield possession to my holy prayers,
  CALIBAN. I'll swear upon that bottle to be thy true
  CHARLES. On what submissive message art thou sent?
    To Ireland will you lead a band of men,
LUCIANA. O, know he is the bridle of your will.
  ARCHBISHOP. Then take, my Lord of Westmoreland, this schedule,

    O sweet Maria, empress of my love!
  KING HENRY. That he is dead, good Warwick, 'tis too true;
    Without revolt: this is, and is not, Cressid.  
    This is she-
    The Bastard of Orleans with him is join'd;
  Cur. You may do, then, in time. Fare you well, sir.      Exit.
  ARMADO. For mine own part, I breathe free breath. I have seen the
    But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
    thou sure of this?
    If any such be here- as God forbid!-
    I'll note you in my book of memory
  Guil. There are the players.
  FOOL. I think no usurer but has a fool to his servant. My mistress  
    Of that great shadow I did represent:  
  ARVIRAGUS.   Thou hast finish'd joy and moan.
  CAIUS. Mock-vater! Vat is dat?
    places she enlargeth her mirth so far that there is shrewd
    The stars, I see, will kiss the valleys first.
  FROTH. No, indeed.
    Thou hast made me now a man; never before
    Tie leaden pounds to's heels. Proceed by process,
    feign'd him a worthy fellow.
    to't?
  Fool. Cry to it, nuncle, as the cockney did to the eels when she
  Ham. I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of spirit. Put your
    Must not in haste abuse- if it be true,
    Stay, let thy humble handmaid speak to thee.
  In singleness the parts that thou shouldst bear:  
    You here at Milford Haven; with your ships,
    herself that she should be so immodest to write to one that she
    Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.
    Better to cease to be. Pray, sir, to th' army.
Enter SPEED and LAUNCE severally
SCENE II.
    Upon the voice of occupation and
  GLOUCESTER. True, uncle.
    I'll to thy closet, and go read with thee
     Brother, a word! Descend! Brother, I say!
                         Enter CATESBY
    My mother did but duty; such, my lord,

    Who is of Rome worse hated than of you,

      Signior Valentio and His cousin Tybalt;  
    Upon the wasted building, suddenly
    The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian. You
    pleasure.
    Reason becomes the marshal to my will,
SCENE II.
                            [Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
    Had been a little ratsbane for thy sake.
    As thoughts do blow them, higher and higher.
    notwithstanding, Master Fenton, I'll be sworn on a book
  MALVOLIO. [Reads] 'To the unknown belov'd, this, and my good
    Is fled to heaven; and England now is left
  MRS. PAGE. Come, Mother Prat; come. give me your hand.
    Pity, you ancient stones, those tender babes
    Were they as prime as goats, as hot as monkeys,
    in thy father's exchequer. What a plague mean ye to colt me thus?
  Bene. Troth, no; no more than reason.
    overcame he?- the beggar. The conclusion is victory; on whose
SCENE III.
    To cavil in the course of this contract.
    I vow'd, base knight, when I did meet thee next
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Are you there, wife? You might
    As living here and you no use of him.

  FOURTH MESSENGER. Sir Thomas Lovel and Lord Marquis
    From Dis's waggon!- daffodils,
  Gon. The best and soundest of his time hath been but rash; then

    In thirteen battles Salisbury o'ercame;

                     Enter Banquo.
  AMIENS. What's that 'ducdame'?

    To be no better than a homely swain;
  OLIVER. Know you before whom, sir?  
  While shadows like to thee do mock my sight?
    Look on my forces with a gracious eye;
  Queen. Alas, how is't with you,  
  EXETER. Ay, we may march in England or in France,
    For mercy to his country. Therefore let's hence,
    That flies her fortune when it follows her.
  Mar. No, it is struck.
  ALL. Peace, ho! Let us hear him.
  PORTIA, wife of Brutus
    Since, of ourselves, ourselves are choleric,  
    That shake us nightly. Better be with the dead,
    any thing so sudden but the fight of two rams and Caesar's
    What shall defend the interim? And at length
                     Enter OLD GOBBO, with a basket
  KATHARINE. He is Cupid's grandfather, and learns news of him.
    To myself nothing. Speak the truth, Seleucus.
    This shall ye do, so help you righteous God!

    to serve God, and keep you out of prawls, and prabbles, and
  MESSENGER. The rebels are in Southwark; fly, my lord!
    Thy master dies thy scholar. To do thus

  QUEEN MARGARET. To serve me well you all should do me
  ELINOR. The very spirit of Plantagenet!
  Should'st thou but hear I were licentious,
    strumpet. What news ?
  THYREUS. Caesar, I go.
  MARCIUS. They have a leader,
    And make a sop of all this solid globe;
    And foul imaginary eyes of blood

  KING RICHARD. Old John of Gaunt, time-honoured Lancaster,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  OTHELLO. Ay, let her rot, and perish, and be damned tonight, for
    We grace the yeoman by conversing with him.
    grief the enemy to the living.
    break the peace, he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and
    His soldiers, spying his undaunted spirit,
                  JUNIUS BRUTUS and SICINIUS VELUTUS
    'Tis best that thou diest quickly.
  DUKE SENIOR. Welcome; fall to. I will not trouble you
    Shall one day make the Duke of York a king.
    The Doctor is well money'd, and his friends
  PAROLLES. If I do not, damn me.
    The partner of your bed. Methinks I see
    fashion a carriage to rob love from any. In this, though I cannot
    For through this laund anon the deer will come;
    The nobles they are fled, the commons they are cold
    Uncle, you say the Queen is at your house;
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Whilst we were wand'ring with the Antipodes,

  JEWELLER. And rich. Here is a water, look ye.
    Uncle, my brother mocks both you and me;
    mistress show'd me thee, and thy dog and thy bush.
    they shall hear I am not afraid.                     [Sings]
    What wicked and dissembling glass of mine
    honesty; had it stretch'd so far, would have made nature  
  HORTENSIO. Peace, Grumio! It is the rival of my love. Petruchio,
  Par. So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.

     From seasons such as these? O, I have ta'en
  Lear. Ay, every inch a king!
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    sackcloth, but in new silk and old sack.  
    perchance of the Duke's death, perchance entering into some
      and common people, etc.
    By all of us; and the fair soul herself
    A full hot horse, who being allow'd his way,
    And see how I regarded Caius Cassius.
    And we will come. March away.                         Exeunt
    What's the matter?
    Cousins, a word, I pray you.
    appointment; even as you came in to me her assistant, or
    I am not bid for love; they flatter me;  
    Upon his son; who, high in name and power,

  Glend. The moon shines fair; you may away by night.
    What harm can your bisson conspectuities glean out of this
    The chief aim of his honour and, to strengthen
  BERKELEY. My Lord of Hereford, my message is to you.
    For it is you that have chalk'd forth the way
  LUCENTIO. Then we are rid of Licio.
    I thought I should have seen some Hercules,
  KING HENRY. How now! What news? Why com'st thou in such haste?
    speech we had to such a purpose.
  Oph. My honour'd lord, you know right well you did,
    He ne'er lift up his hand but conquered.
  MARGARELON, a bastard son of Priam
    That my poor mistress, moved therewithal,
  APEMANTUS. Come with me, fool, come.
    Most provident in peril, bind himself-
    idle, made of self-love, which is the most inhibited sin in the
  GLOUCESTER. Margaret!
  TALBOT. Signior, hang! Base muleteers of France!
  MACBETH. No, nor more fearful.
    had set me i' th' stocks, i' th' common stocks, for a witch.
  JULIA. O, cry you mercy, sir, I have mistook;
    Of what is in her chamber nothing saves
  These vacant leaves thy mind's imprint will bear,
    But on this day let seamen fear no wreck;

    Farewell, our brother.
    At least into a jealousy so strong
  LUCIO. It is true.
    sack. Our soldiers shall march through. We'll to Sutton Co'fil'
    What faults he made before the last, I think
    If I confess much, you will play the tyrant.
  CLEOPATRA. Sleep a little.
    The lean and wrinkled Cassius; and 'twas I
                                     Exeunt ALCIBIADES and LORDS
    So in the Lethe of thy angry soul
    As far as to the sepulchre of Christ-
  FRANCIS. Sirrah, here will be the Prince and Master Poins anon; and

    Disdaining Fortune, with his brandish'd steel,
    That makes these odds all even.
    itself, have commiseration on thy heroical vassal. The
    To public ear;
SCENE IV.
    Sir, to your pleasure humbly I subscribe;
  Shall worms inheritors of this excess



    Upon the wild sea-banks, and waft her love
    Where's my spaniel Troilus? Sirrah, get you hence,
    Crying "Long live! Hail, Caesar!"
    Betwixt ourselves and all our followers.
    As falcon doth the fowl, is yet a devil;
    Speak to thy father ere thou yield thy breath!

    a butcher.
             With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
  AUDREY. Well, the gods give us joy!  
    And do not play in wench-like words with that
  SECOND CITIZEN. Peace! Silence! Brutus speaks.  
  NORFOLK. It's heaven's will;
    When it comes so smoothly off, so obscenely, as it were, so fit.
Camp before Florence
    For else his project dies-to keep them living.

    That my integrity and truth to you
    And what in us hath seem'd ridiculous,
  GENTLEWOMAN. Since his Majesty went into the field, have seen her
    Lovers, to bed; 'tis almost fairy time.
    Of noble Richard! Then true noblesse would
    For I have often heard my mother say
    Nor never more in Russian habit wait.
            Or have a woman to your lord;
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. But how long fairly shall her sweet life
  The earth can have but earth, which is his due,
  SECOND LORD. Fare thee well, fare thee well.

     You know the fiery quality of the Duke,
    And flashing fire will follow.
    in this form and with this addition, in French, Notre tres cher
    Or by some other.
    And you, my gentle knight, give me your thoughts.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
    Him you term'd, sir, 'the good old lord, Gonzalo';  
    Stops on a sudden, looks upon the ground,  

    Staying for thine to keep him company.
     hither my fool.  
    And reason panders will.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  FIRST SOLDIER. There is no remedy, sir, but you must die.
  STEPHANO. Come, kiss.
Enter Macbeth, Doctor, and Attendants.
with other LORDS
  SUFFOLK. That is her ransom; I deliver her.
    While she did call me rascal fiddler
    [Sings] By Gis and by Saint Charity,  
    Your weak condition to the raw cold morning.
    Love's tongue proves dainty Bacchus gross in taste.
    For inequality; but let your reason serve
    Shall lose his head for his presumption.
  LARTIUS. How often he had met you, sword to sword;
    Before we hear him, of some things of weight
  Ham. I see a cherub that sees them. But come, for England!
    More stronger to direct you than yourself,
    That fret the clouds are messengers of day.
  BRUTUS. Ay, saw you anything?
  A quest of thoughts, all tenants to the heart,
  VIOLA. And so they are; alas, that they are so!
    To the last gasp, with truth and loyalty.
    direction. Be gone, and come when you are call'd.
    Not to pick bad from bad, but by bad mend!                Exeunt.
    Or get some little knife between thy teeth  
  IMOGEN. Is he dispos'd to mirth? I hope he is.
  TROILUS. By whom, Aeneas?
    You knew my father well, and in him me,

    And says that once more I shall interchange
    That do outface it with their semblances.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. They stand at the door, master; bid them welcome hither.
    I promis'd to enquire carefully
    I prithee speak. We will not trust our eyes
    So criminal and in such capital kind,
    Which you weep for.
     The lowest and most dejected thing of fortune,
    The present money to discharge the Jew,
  AUTOLYCUS. Age, thou hast lost thy labour.
    For ruin's wasteful entrance; there, the murtherers,
    After the slaughter of so many peers,
                            Re-enter CURTIS
  Who glazed with crystal gate the glowing roses
  PEMBROKE. Stay yet, Lord Salisbury, I'll go with thee

               Enter, on the walls, the MASTER-GUNNER
  DOLABELLA. Hear me, good madam.
  COUNTESS. I will now hear; what say you of this gentlewoman?
    Call forth your soothsayer. As I slept, methought
    do a desperate outrage to herself. It is very true.
    Where having nothing, nothing can he lose.
Enter TIMON in the woods
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  MRS. FORD. Step into th' chamber, Sir John.      Exit FALSTAFF
  PANDARUS. Well, well! Why, have you any discretion? Have you any
    Do shameful execution on herself.
    Is as a meeting of the petty gods,
  O but with mine, compare thou thine own state,
    I fear our purpose is discovered.
                      Enter WESTMORELAND
    Speak, nephew, were you by when it began?
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Ah, that thou wouldst as soon afford a
  GEORGE. O miserable age! Virtue is not regarded in handicraftsmen.
  MACBETH. [Aside.] Then comes my fit again. I had else been perfect,
    alive.
    Think how thou stabb'dst me in my prime of youth
    Dark as your fortune is, and but disguise
     (As this I would; ay, though thou didst produce
    This bawd, this broker, this all-changing word,
    Can I demand.

    Whate'er occasion keeps him from us now.
    For our beloved mother in her pains.
    That I am desperate of obtaining her.
  SHALLOW. The same Sir John, the very same. I see him break
SCENE VII.
  STEPHANO. Put off that gown, Trinculo; by this hand, I'll  
    Such parting were too petty. Look here, love:
    Against the Moor; for I do know, the state,
    I know from whence this same device proceeds.  
    I must needs wake you. Lady! lady! lady!
    Master Froth, look upon his honour; 'tis for a good purpose. Doth  
  PORTIA. It is not so express'd, but what of that?  
    Hath turn'd itself on me. Lo, here I lie,
    shall see this very night.
    To the tent-royal of their emperor;
SCENE VII.
    Return thee therefore with a flood of tears,
    There you shall find that Portia was the doctor,
    Therefore go back.
    Yet let not this make thee be bloody-minded;
  BERTRAM. For this description of thine honesty? A pox upon him! For

SCENE III.
    Still neighbour mine. My ships are ready, and
             But Athenian found I none

  MACDUFF I'll make so bold to call,
    All circumstances well considered.
  SIMPLE. May I be bold to say so, sir?
    As the recomforted through th' gates. Why, hark you!
    This dead King to the living King I'll bear.
The street in Windsor
    of a king?
    Dispark'd my parks and fell'd my forest woods,
    Now like a man of steel. You that will fight,
    That speak him full of grace.

  PUCELLE. Behold, this is the happy wedding torch
    For saying nothing; when, I am very sure,
    Since lowly feigning was call'd compliment.
    To-day to marry with my brother's daughter?

    I stabb'd your fathers' bosoms: split my breast.
  FIRST SOLDIER. Well, is this captain in the Duke of Florence's
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    The constant service of the antique world,
    That you have no such mirrors as will turn
    To wilful disobedience, and rebel!
    To entertain these fair well-spoken days,

    My chastity's the jewel of our house,
  Ham. Thou pray'st not well.
    The King hath sent him, sure: I must dissemble.
  GLOUCESTER. And for the proffer of my lord your master,
    Most of our city did. Only myself stood out;  
    Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.
                                      Exeunt SALERIO and SOLANIO
    And profound Solomon to tune a jig,

SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
                          and GLOUCESTER
    The cygnet's down is harsh, and spirit of sense
Enter CHARMIAN, IRAS, ALEXAS, and a SOOTHSAYER
    And here another. The one of them imports
  BOYET. Nothing but peace and gentle visitation.
    not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir,
    The virtue of his will; but you must fear,
    But if you hunt these bear-whelps, then beware:
    With flow'rs of winter.
    Than all the princes in the land beside;
    The peers agreed; and Henry was well pleas'd
    Should become Kings of Naples? O, rejoice
  GAUNT. As near as I could sift him on that argument,

    And you shall be conducted.
    Now I'll stand to it, the pancakes were naught and the mustard  
  SLENDER.  [Aside]  Ah, sweet Anne Page!
  MIRANDA. It would become me  
    Or fearing else some messenger that might her mind discover,
    How shall we find the concord of this discord?
    But to look back in frown. Stand, stand!' These three,
  COSTARD. Under correction, sir, we know whereuntil it doth amount.
  TROILUS. Why was my Cressid then so hard to win?
    Mark Antony I serv'd, who best was worthy
  LAFEU. Do not plunge thyself too far in anger, lest thou hasten thy
    By me entreats, great lord, thou wouldst vouchsafe
  JULIA. Ay, madam.  

  Capulet, heads of two houses at variance with each other.
    All in Bohemia's well- this satisfaction
  Gon. Milk-liver'd man!
    Suppose the singing birds musicians,
  Beat. Did he never make you laugh?  
  PEMBROKE. O death, made proud with pure and princely beauty!
    Within the limits of yon lime and stone;
    Imagine 'twere the right Vincentio.
    With deafing clamour in the slippery clouds,
    As they would hang them on the horns o' th' moon,
  DOCTOR. You may to me, and 'tis most meet you should.
  BOTTOM. Why do they run away? This is a knavery of them to make me

    sleeves should be cut out, and sew'd up again; and that I'll  
  Beat. Alas, he gets nothing by that! In our last conflict four of
  Hor. Propose the oath, my lord.  
    Cuts off so many years of fearing death.
  CLOWN. If I put any tricks upon 'em, sir, they shall be jades'
  CRESSIDA. Ay, if I ever saw him before and knew him.
    My lord the Duke of Buckingham, and Earl
     Lay comforts to your bosom, and bestow
  CLOWN. Do you not hear, fellows? Take away the lady.  
    My hand cut off and made a merry jest;
    The wager you have laid.
    This peace is nothing but to rust iron, increase tailors, and
  Say now, whose suit is he arrested at?
    Whose love is never link'd to the deserver
  ANTONIO. We two, my lord,
    What thriftless sighs shall poor Olivia breathe!  
    Therefore, Lord Oxford, to prevent the worst,
    And mak'st an oath the surety for thy truth  
    Lay not that flattering unction to your soul

    to mend your shoes. Come, wherefore should you be so pashful?

met by SIR THOMAS LOVELL
    A counsellor, a traitress, and a dear;  
  COMINIUS. I have been i' th' market-place; and, sir, 'tis fit
    I'll geld 'em all; fourteen they shall not see
  Two loves I have of comfort and despair,
    Now I behold thy lively body so?
    I will discharge thee.

  QUEEN ELIZABETH. O thou well skill'd in curses, stay awhile
    And thus he would open your city gates,
  LEPIDUS. 'Tis a strange serpent.
  SHALLOW. We have linger'd about a match between Anne
    But as this title honours me and mine,  
    But kneels and holds up hands for fellowship,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Once more, what news?
    Should in the farthest East bean to draw
    and friend Simple by your name, which way have you
Rome. A street.
    As kill a man, or else devise his death;
  PUCK. My fairy lord, this must be done with haste,
  POMPEY. Groping for trouts in a peculiar river.
    Of beauteous Margaret hath astonish'd me.
    Nor came any of his bounties over me
    I serv'd my King, he would not in mine age
  At length another ship had seiz'd on us;
  Pedro. Your silence most offends me, and to be merry best becomes

  AJAX. Farewell. Who shall answer him?
    Do I not bate? Do I not dwindle? Why, my skin hangs about me like
    mind.
    Have been consider'd and debated on.
  ESCALUS. Such a fellow is not to be talk'd withal. Away with him to
    Then in a moment Fortune shall cull forth
  GOWER. Here 'a comes; and the Scots captain, Captain Jamy, with

    Or brought a fagot to bright-burning Troy?
  Queen. To draw apart the body he hath kill'd;
    of him.

    As they were living; think you see them great,
  SURREY. Would he had!
    your whoreson dead body. Here's a skull now. This skull hath lien
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    As I do thee. Something too much of this I
    Before I came. Marry, thus much I have learnt:
    walk like one of the lions; when you fasted, it was presently
    traitor
  The dedicated words which writers use
    recovered the King and undone me. I have wedded her, not bedded
    Makes him to send that he may learn the ground.
    A fair one are you- well you fit our ages
    can they charitably dispose of anything when blood is their
    Though great ones are their object. 'Tis even so;
    There is a slave, whom we have put in prison,


  To put the finger in the eye and weep,

    The warlike service he has done, consider; think
    So that perforce you must needs stay a time.
  LAVINIA. In peace and honour live Lord Titus long;
  TROILUS. Amen.
    And still conclusion, shall acquire no honour
    The pain be mine, but thine shall be the praise.
  PAULINA. You are one of those
    Sir, your pennyworth is good, an your goose be fat.
    This is the door.
    I give heaven thanks I was not like to thee!
  KING. Thou wrong'st thyself, if thou shouldst strive to choose.
    This pretty lad will prove our country's bliss.

    My traffic is sheets; when the kite builds, look to lesser linen.
    And whispers to his pillow, as to him,
    Prophetically do forethink thy fall.
  BUCKINGHAM. To th' King I'll say't, and make my vouch as strong  
    From thousand dangers; bid him bury it.
    encounter such ridiculous subjects as you are. When you speak
    Go, play, boy, play; thy mother plays, and I
    Makes me most forward in this princely presence
    strange sights. He must know 'tis none of your daughter nor my

  THIRD CONSPIRATOR. The people will remain uncertain whilst
  IACHIMO. They are in a trunk,
    To wayward sickliness and age in him.
    Untimely ripp'd.
    To break it with a fearful dream of him,
  Queen. Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
    of Moonshine. Then there is another thing: we must have a wall in
  THERSITES. I'll decline the whole question. Agamemnon commands
    Bequeathing it as a rich legacy
  Jul. It is an honour that I dream not of.
    Since it is bankrupt of his majesty.
    A Roman sworder and banditto slave
    Regard me as I do not flatter, and
  Leon. What is he that you ask for, niece?
    And laid mine honour too unchary out;
    And He that might the vantage best have took
    And to my brother turn my blushing cheeks.
  NYM. That now I will have; that's the humour of it.
    If they can brook I bow a knee to man.
  Wor. It may not be.
    Yet none of you would once beg for his life.
    Such are the poor, in health- or else a feast,  
                                    Exeunt GLOUCESTER and EXETER
  OTHELLO.             What dost thou say, Iago?
    Observe degree, priority, and place,
    so much were a kind of ingrateful injury; to report otherwise
  SOLANIO. Here comes another of the tribe; a third cannot be
     That ebb and flow by th' moon.
SCENE III.
    Eastcheap. They call drinking deep, dying scarlet; and when
    But I was made a king, at nine months old.
    confess- not brown neither-
  DUKE. Angelo,
     Allows itself to anything.
    Though he be blunt, I know him passing wise;
  PISTOL
    To villainy and vengeance consecrate,
    When thou hast stolen away from fairy land,
    Thou art a fool. She robs thee of thy name;
  And that shall bail me; hie thee, slave, be gone.
               Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace
    Speak, of all loves! I swoon almost with fear.
    And show more sign of her obedience,
    The bitter sentence of poor Clarence' death?  
  CLOWN. One good woman in ten, madam, which is a purifying o' th'
    name, sirrah?
    As fancy values them; but with true prayers
    land-thieves- I mean pirates; and then there is the peril of
    under Saturn) goest about to apply a moral medicine to a
  Like stones of worth they thinly placed are,
  YORK. Thou fond mad woman,
    Find cause in Caesar.
    his face is Lucifer's privy-kitchen, where he doth nothing but
    A half-fac'd groat five hundred pound a year!
    The seasons alter: hoary-headed frosts
    I thank thee, Jew, for teaching me that word.
  ALICE. Oui, vraiment, sauf votre grace, ainsi dit-il.
  LAFEU. These boys are boys of ice; they'll none have her.
  Juliet, daughter to Capulet.
    There are but sixteen hundred mercenaries;
  PISTOL. Thrust him down stairs! Know we not Galloway nags?
    whiting-time-send him by your two men to Datchet
  Lear. Those wicked creatures yet do look well-favour'd
  Kent. I cannot wish the fault undone, the issue of it being so
  THESEUS. She will find him by starlight. Here she comes; and her
    And to make whores a bawd. Hold up, you sluts,

  And you but one, can every shadow lend:
  KING HENRY. To kiss.
    Woman it pretty self- into a waggish courage;
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

    brawling dost thou keep!
    The means that makes us strangers!
    Were in wild hurry, here do make his friends
  HUME. Hume must make merry with the Duchess' gold;

    Come when the King doth to my lady come;
    To this imperial throne. There is no bar
    Till all the Andronici be made away.
  STANLEY. Most mighty sovereign,
    see how thine eye would emulate the diamond; thou hast
    His wonders and his praises do contend
Another part of the forest
    And tell sad stories of the death of kings:

    against me. Now shall the devil be sham'd. What, wife, I  
  DEMETRIUS. Why, then, we are awake; let's follow him;
    Caesar doth bear me hard, but he loves Brutus.
  FALSTAFF. That can hardly be, Master Shallow. Do not you grieve at
  Corn. What, art thou mad, old fellow?
    As loud, and to as many tunes; hats, cloaks-
    that had received so much shame, you might begin an impudent  
  BARDOLPH. Hold, Wart. Traverse- thus, thus, thus.
    inclination, after his undressed, unpolished, uneducated,
    Money buys lands, and wives are sold by fate.

    as I have read in the chronicles, fought a most prave pattle here
  Edg. Pillicock sat on Pillicock's Hill. 'Allow, 'allow, loo, loo!
    An instrument of this your calling back,
     contents.
  LENNOX. What a haste looks through his eyes! So should he look  
    My sight was ever thick; regard Titinius,
    I will but spend a word here in the house  
  Mine own true love that doth my rest defeat,

    for ten shillings.
  BLANCH. The Lady Constance speaks not from her faith,
    That in cross-ways and floods have burial,
  CADE. And henceforward all things shall be in common.
  Where I will walk till thou return to me.
    With all my love I do commend me to you;
    Nor age nor honour shall shape privilege.
    Are made, not mark'd; where violent sorrow seems
    Of here and everywhere. I had a sister
    Such terrible impression made my dream.
  PETRUCHIO. Did ever Dian so become a grove
    The crown will find an heir. Great Alexander
    crown it. No perfection in reversion shall have a praise in
    She is alone th' Arabian bird, and I

  ORLANDO. I would kiss before I spoke.
  Kent. Pray do not, sir. I have watch'd and travell'd hard.
  CAPTAIN. Ay, madam, well; for I was bred and born

    The eye of reason may pry in upon us.  
              Let no face be kept in mind
Enter Gloucester, and Edgar [like a Peasant].
  KING. Make choice and see:
     from his book, and it is wonderful.

  KING. 'Tis midnight, Charles;
    All humbleness, all patience, and impatience,
    But this lies all within the will of God,
    My father stays my coming; answer not;
  PORTIA. The crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark
    And on the wager lay two earthly women,
    Sleeping or waking, must I still prevail
    well.- Welcome, good friends.- O, my old friend? Why, thy face is
LUCIANA. That's my sister.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Nay, rather persuade him to hold his hands.
    And cried 'All hail!' when as he meant all harm.
    As thou dost ruminate, and give thy worst of thoughts
    It must appear in other ways than words,

    And too impatiently stamp'd with your foot.
    Next, Caius Cassius, do I take your hand;
  NESTOR. Go, bear Patroclus' body to Achilles,
        These pretty country folks would lie,
    Will you not push her out? Give her the bastard.
    That stays upon me; whose persuasion is
    The special head of all the land together-
    be now a gainer? Good body, I thank thee. Let them say
    She'll gallop far enough to her destruction.            Exit
    O worthiness of nature! breed of greatness!
  KATHARINE. Admit him entrance, Griffith; but this fellow
  I to this fortune that you see me in.
  PISTOL. Why, then, lament therefore.
    A way to make us better friends, more known.
    Come, come, our Empress, with her sacred wit
    companions.' There comes none here. You would bless you to hear

  FALSTAFF. Thou art a very ragged wart.
    That gentle physic, given in time, had cur'd me;
SCENE III.
    Thou bear'st thy heavy riches but a journey,
    Yet living in my glass; even such and so
    When thou dost meet good hap; and in thy danger,
    I know you are more clement than vile men,
                        Enter a SERVANT
    Where's Bardolph?
    Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine,
    And now, methinks, I have a mind to it.
    To do myself this wrong. Till, at the last,
    Lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be. God be at
LUCULLUS' house
    Dull not device by coldness and delay.                      Exit.
  ANGELO. Ha! Fie, these filthy vices! It were as good

    For France hath flaw'd the league, and hath attach'd
  Nurse. They call for dates and quinces in the pastry.
    Wise things seem foolish and rich things but poor.
    Let all the ends thou aim'st at be thy country's,
  QUEEN, wife to Cymbeline  
                                                    Exit PROVOST
    but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
    ignorance; in which thou art more puzzled than the Egyptians in
  HELENA. I do presume, sir, that you are not fall'n
    other business.

    That I had been forsworn. Beshrew your eyes!
    And such a twain can do't, in which I bind,
    Jove, I thank thee. I will smile; I will do everything that thou
    quiddities? What a plague have I to do with a buff jerkin?
  KATHERINA. Well ta'en, and like a buzzard.
  FALSTAFF. By the Lord, thou art a tyrant to say so; thou
    To me a break-neck. Happy star reign now!
     For there was never yet fair woman but she made mouths in a
    With greasy aprons, rules, and hammers, shall
    With a reed voice; and turn two mincing steps
    That grows not in a fair consent with ours;
      So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,

  FIRST OUTLAW. But if thou scorn our courtesy thou diest.
    If she did know me one. Away with her!
    Nor thine on me!                                       Dies.
    more sounder instance; come.
    In many singularities; but we saw not
    Which else would put you to your fortune and
  FABIAN. This was a great argument of love in her toward you.
    And therefore yet relent and save my life.
    As beasts and birds and fishes.
  BASSANIO. So may the outward shows be least themselves;
    And leave you hindmost;
           But my kisses bring again, bring again;
    Die, die, Lavinia, and thy shame with thee;   [He kills her]
    Enforce the present execution
  PANDULPH. Give me leave to speak.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  IAGO. Something from Venice, sure. 'Tis Lodovico
    The rather by these arguments of fear,

  CLARENCE. Are you drawn forth among a world of men
  BARDOLPH. Come, get you down stairs.
  FIRST CITIZEN. Tear him to pieces, he's a conspirator.
    These eyes that see thee now well coloured
  GLOUCESTER. Even so; an't please your worship, Brakenbury,
    The universal landlord.
  I tell you 'twill sound harshly in her cars.
    and dismiss him. He cannot plead his estimation with you; he hath
    To greet a man not worth her pains, much less
    That thou hast practiced on her with foul charms,
    O, heaven be judge how I love Valentine,
A loud alarum. Enter CLIFFORD, wounded

    dear Lord,
  ARCHBISHOP. Good my Lord of Lancaster,
    Because I would not dull you with my song.
    Walk in the orchard, and our whole discourse
  Gent. A sight most pitiful in the meanest wretch,
  KING RICHARD. Faith, none but Humphrey Hour, that call'd
  SHALLOW. By the mass, I could anger her to th' heart. She was then
    has not offended the King; and so your flesh and blood is not to
  LORDS. Our duties and the pledge.
    When they are bound to serve, love, and obey.

The open country.
    As is the osprey to the fish, who takes it
                                               [Here they fight]
    Into this gaping hollow of the earth?
     Staines.
    For my part, I may speak it to my shame,
    Err in bestowing it.
    Or thee, or thee, or any of your faction?

  '"But, O my sweet, what labour is't to leave
  TIMON. 'Tis not well mended so; it is but botch'd.
    Of late upon me. I must thank him only,
  KING HENRY. Upon that I kiss your hand, and I can you my queen.
    Our reverend Cardinal carried.

    If you do love me, you will find me out.
    His wonted sleep under a fresh tree's shade,
    The need we have to use you did provoke
    Till they have fretted us a pair of graves
    Attend his Majesty!
  Thy beauty, and thy years full well befits,
    Loather a hundred times to part than die.
    Seem to besiege, and make his bold waves tremble,
  DUKE. Had you a special warrant for the deed?
  ANGELO. This is a strange abuse. Let's see thy face.
    Pray, uncle Gloucester, mitigate this strife.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  SIR TOBY. Wherefore are these things hid? Wherefore have these
    Debauch'd on every tomb, on every grave
  EVANS. Peace, I pray you. Now let us understand. There is
    Than so much loss of time.
     The food of thy abused father's wrath!
  TALBOT. Well, let them practise and converse with spirits:
    To hear and absolutely to determine
  DIOMEDES. No, no, good night; I'll be your fool no more.
    See what a ready tongue suspicion hath!
  CLOWN. Marry, sir, lullaby to your bounty till I come again. I go,
     Our potency made good, take thy reward.
    Retiring from the siege of Orleans,
    I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.
    gone.
    Thou wast their nurse; they took thee for their mother,
    Who is already sick and pale with grief
    What brings you here to court so hastily?
    The cheapest of us is ten groats too dear.
    forswear the full stream of the world and to live in a nook
  WOLSEY. Please you, sir,
    Have glow'd like plated Mars, now bend, now turn,
    I humbly pray them to admit th' excuse
  PROTEUS. Sir Proteus, gentle lady, and your servant.
    In part for his sake mov'd.
    I 'gin to be aweary of the sun
    And ripen justice in this commonweal.
  DUKE. Well, I will be so much a sinner to be a double-dealer.
  ALONSO. Is not this Stephano, my drunken butler?
  Guil. No, my lord; rather with choler.
     Through tatter'd clothes small vices do appear;
    Then, if thou grant'st th'art a man, I have forgot thee.
    That I have blown this coal: I do deny it.
    To come and sport. Her peacocks fly amain.
    Dutch Gentleman, a Spanish Gentleman, Musicians, Officers,
    The gods defend him from so great a shame!
  TIMON. I'll have it so. My steward!
    If thy sweet virtue answer not thy show.
    ha, ha?
    Who dares not stand his foe I'll be his friend;

    LUCIUS
  MARGARET. Yes, my good lord: a pure unspotted heart,
SCENE III.
    Perpend my words, O Signieur Dew, and mark:
  FABIAN. O, peace! Now he's deeply in; look how imagination blows
    I am ashamed I did yield to them.
  ISABELLA. That I do beg his life, if it be sin,
    Lest, being seen, thy brother, tender George,
  CALIBAN. Why, as I told thee, 'tis a custom with him
    And call me father? Better burn it now
  Look what thy memory cannot contain,
    London,
    May prove a beauteous flow'r when next we meet.
    I'd not have show'd it.
     And added to the gall. O Lear, Lear, Lear!
ACT II. Scene I.
  KATHARINE. Two hot sheeps, marry!
  MRS. FORD. And till he tell the truth,
    Till now infixed I beheld myself
Enter three Witches.
                  TROILUS AND CRESSIDA
    Both fill'd and running- ravening first the lamb,  
    By being peevish? I tell thee what, Antonio-
    The lining of his coffers shall make coats
     Fiery? the fiery Duke? Tell the hot Duke that-
  Gent. Not to a rage. Patience and sorrow strove  
    Of excellent dumb discourse.
                       meeting them
    Lodg'd in the abbey; where the reverend abbot,
    Give me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go.


    They thus directed, we will follow
    Fly o'er them, all impatient for their hour.
    Hubert shall be your man, attend on you
    Glittering in golden coats like images;
  REIGNIER. She takes upon her bravely at first dash.
    Few words suffice; and therefore, if thou know
    to move in't, are the holes where eyes should be, which pitifully
    Can set the Duke up in despite of me.
    Commends him to you.               [Gives BASSANIO a letter]
    Becomes a virtuous bachelor and a maid,
    Unless the deed go with it. From this moment
    Becomes more mock'd than fear'd; so our decrees,
    To wear your gentle limbs in my affairs,
    And twenty caged nightingales do sing.
    Disburs'd I duly to his Highness' soldiers;
             And here the maiden, sleeping sound,

  DOORKEEPER Of the Council chamber  
  TITUS. Patient yourself, madam, and pardon me.

    I'll speak in a monstrous little voice: 'Thisne, Thisne!'
    The painting is almost the natural man;
    As well my undertakings as your counsels;
    Yield, rustic mountaineer.                  Exeunt, fighting
  Pol. Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
  TRINCULO. This is the tune of our catch, play'd by the
     though I should win your displeasure to entreat me to't.
  NERISSA. Madam, it is, so you stand pleas'd withal.
    youth, and he that hath no beard is less than a man; and he that
    There is so hot a summer in my bosom
    This sudden sending him away must seem
    Quoted and sign'd to do a deed of shame,
    man'?
    I have led you oft; carry me now, good friends,

  KING RICHARD. Some light-foot friend post to the Duke of
  LEONTES. What, canst not rule her?

    That wish'd him on the barren mountains starve.
    causeless. Hence is it that we make trifles of terrors,
    How much I have disabled mine estate

  ENOBARBUS. There I deny my land service. But give me your hand,
    out of him. By his authority he remains here, which he thinks is

    A shrewd turn, if she pleas'd.
    Your blunt upbraidings and your bitter scoffs.
  But longer did we not retain much hope,

    She is fair; and so is Julia that I love-
    Are not you he?
    Where like a sweet melodious bird it sung
    You are abus'd, and by some putter-on
    to the scrip.
  CAMPEIUS. Put your main cause into the King's protection;
  THERSITES. As will stop the eye of Helen's needle, for whom he  
    If I say fine, cry 'Fine!'- if death, cry 'Death!'

  LUCY. His fame lives in the world, his shame in you.       Exeunt
    Communicat'st with dreams- how can this be?-
  AUSTRIA. Upon thy cheek lay I this zealous kiss
    had never so good means as desire to make myself acquainted
  SPEED. Truly, sir, I think you'll hardly win her.
                Enter old QUEEN MARGARET, behind
  COMINIUS. Let me speak.
    the by the lesser legs; if any be Trinculo's legs, these
Enter RICHMOND, OXFORD, SIR JAMES BLUNT, SIR WALTER HERBERT, and others,
    thou art a fair corse, I'll be sworn and sworn upon't she never

  DUKE. Have you no countermand for Claudio yet

  WOLSEY. Is he ready
    Nor can I utter all our bitter grief,
    As sense cannot untie. Be what it is,
  BOTTOM. Nay, you must name his name, and half his face must be seen
  AGAMEMNON. Speak frankly as the wind;
    Prince Troilus, I have lov'd you night and day
      pricket.

  IAGO. O gentle lady, do not put me to't,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    which better part I have saved my life. Zounds, I am afraid of
    Go to the bay and disembark my coffers.
    Yet herein will I imitate the sun,
  TYRREL. I did, my lord.


    ill-favouredly.
    faithfully confirm'd by the rector of the place.

    To hear the wooden dialogue and sound  

    His fairest daughter is contaminated.

    Is notwithstanding up. Good morrow, Antony.
    Pleaseth your Majesty to give me leave,
  That never meat sweet-savour'd in thy taste,
    As passes colouring.
  GONZALO. Sir, we were talking that our garments seem now
    Ah, women, women! Come; we have no friend
    All faults I make, when I shall come to know them.
  ROSS. The Earl of Wiltshire hath the realm in farm.

    soldier, that is the leader of so many thousands. Let that
    I have many other ways to die, meantime
    Give the all-hail to thee, and cry 'Be blest  
    You mainly were stirr'd up.
  CLEOPATRA. [Aside to ENOBARBUS] What means this?
  Ant. Hold you content. What, man! I know them, yea,
    If damned custom have not braz'd it so

    and one of the King's justices of the peace. What is your good
    And wilt not come? Come, recreant, come, thou child;
  ANDROMACHE. My dreams will, sure, prove ominous to the day.
    Spirt up so suddenly into the clouds,


    a coward; but his few bad words are match'd with as few good
  FASTOLFE. Ay,
ACT_4|SC_6
    fortune, his fortune! O, let him marry a woman that cannot go,
    And raise the power of France upon his head,
    His Majesty seldom fears. I am Cressid's uncle,  
  To make the weeper laugh, the laugher weep,  
                     147

    If this letter move him not, his legs cannot. I'll give't him.
    To find another that is like to thee,
  As a decrepit father takes delight,
    But fear the main intendment of the Scot,
    borrows of the moon when Diomed keeps his word. I will rather
    With the most boldest and best hearts of Rome.

    Of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves
    Well then, your bond; and, let me see- but hear you,
    To some more fitter place, and that with speed.
  WARWICK. Depos'd he shall be, in despite of all.
  FITZWATER. Now, by my soul, I would it were this hour.
    Without the which I am not to be won,
  CASSIUS. I pray you, do.

    What heart, head, sword, force, means, but is Lord Timon's?
  MACBETH. I wish your horses swift and sure of foot,
    And here my naked breast; within, a heart
  MALVOLIO. How now, mistress!
    Is this the daughter of a king?
    From so divine a temple to commix
    husband, look to thy servants, cherish thy guests. Thou shalt
    And kiss him with a glorious victory.
    of mercy; but they knew what they did: I am to do a good turn for

    Being purg'd, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes;

        Enter at one door, HORNER, the Armourer, and his
    When the day serves, before black-corner'd night,
    How now, Ophelia? What's the matter?
  QUICKLY. Nay, but do so then; and, look you, he may come
    And able horses. No porter at his gate,
    The plebeians have got your fellow tribune
  SATURNINUS. Aemilius, do this message honourably;
    Let it no more bring out ingrateful man!
    And set the murderous Machiavel to school.
    abominable monster!

    By this time, had the King permitted us,
    They have been violent to me and mine.
  ANTONIO. Lend me the letter; let me see what news.


    Bending their expedition toward Philippi.
    The anger'd ocean foams; with which I meant
    With his good will and thy good company,
    Why, we have galls, and though we have some grace,
  CALIBAN. What a pied ninny's this! Thou scurvy patch!
    To break the heart of generosity
  '"How mighty then you are, O hear me tell!
    Will catch at us like strumpets, and scald rhymers
    them. Let the King have the letters I have sent, and repair thou
  VOLUMNIA. I prithee now, sweet son, as thou hast said
    Launcelot?
    If this be he you oft have wish'd to hear from.
  Claud. [aside] He hath ta'en th' infection. Hold it up.

  LADY PERCY. O, yet, for God's sake, go not to these wars!

  MALVOLIO. Yes, and shall do, till the pangs of death shake him.
  Gads. I prithee lend me this lantern to see my gelding in the
  Although thou steal thee all my poverty:
    yourself.
    For you shall sup with Jesu Christ to-night.  
    He's truly valiant that can wisely suffer
    To bury mine intents, but also to effect
    And that will quickly dry thy melting tears.

  MENENIUS. You know neither me, yourselves, nor any thing. You are

    And one who much I honour.
    Do not abuse my master's bounty by
  Marg. Get you some of this distill'd carduus benedictus and lay it
     simple thief. Hark in thine ear. Change places and, handy-dandy,
  'Nor gives it satisfaction to our blood
    Then to sea, boys, and let her go hang!
  Ham. Speak. I am bound to hear.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  SHADOW. Here, sir.  
    And now I do bethink me, so it is-
    But what o' that? Go, you that banish'd him:
                                          Exeunt all but Antony.
    Now, pray, my lord, let's see the devil's writ.
    He shall unbolt the gates.

    Well, sweet Jack, have a care of thyself.
  THIRD. WITCH. Show!
    Therefore, my lords, omit no happy hour  
    A merrier hour was never wasted there.
    When you have vow'd, you must not speak with men
  PRINCE JOHN. The word of peace is rend'red. Hark, how they shout!
    A stranger, no offender; and inform him
Capulet's orchard.
  ANTONIO. A space whose ev'ry cubit
    And better us'd, would make her sainted spirit
    And free from other misbegotten hate,  
    mother.
    To Bedlam with him! Is the man grown mad?
  LORENZO. Dear lady, welcome home.
  SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  There all is marr'd; there lies a cooling
    soldiers?
  Nurse. Now, afore God, I am so vexed that every part about me
    Let him that will a screech-owl aye be call'd
    Which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield them,
    And crossly to thy good all fortune goes.               Exit
    plague on my bringing up! I hope I shall as soon be strangled
     Are lethargied- Ha! waking? 'Tis not so!
    Upbraid my falsehood when th' have said 'As false
Enter the DAUPHIN, ORLEANS, RAMBURES, and others
    To curb the will of the nobility;
  GREMIO. Yea, leave that labour to great Hercules,

  Ham. I am tame, sir; pronounce.

  STEPHANO. Doth thy other mouth call me? Mercy, mercy!
  TROILUS. Have with you, Prince. My courteous lord, adieu.
  PAULINA. For ever  

    esteems himself happy that he hath fall'n into the hands of one-
    What! a speaker is but a prater: a rhyme is but a ballad. A good  
  That due of many, now is thine alone.
    And thither I will send you Matthew Goffe;
    Who long'st like me to see thy lord, who long'st-  
    With humble and familiar courtesy;
    Constring'd in mass by the almighty sun,
    Meaning the King at Pomfret. Come, let's go.
    living? No. Why? Detraction will not suffer it. Therefore I'll
    And let us, Polydore, though now our voices
  FIRST VARRO'S SERVANT. How! What does his cashier'd worship mutter?
    a catch that will draw three souls out of one weaver? Shall we do
  Friar Francis.
  HELENA. I am a simple maid, and therein wealthiest

  ANNE. Good mother, do not marry me to yond fool.
    Lead him off.                             Exit Montano, attended.
    thou sociable, now art thou Romeo; now art thou what thou art, by
    Who with their drowsy, slow, and flagging wings
  PORTIA. He is well paid that is well satisfied,
Act IV. Scene I.
    Who is to bear me like a thunderbolt
    Can my sides hold, to think that man- who knows
    Belong to Egypt. Good now, play one scene
    Demetrius loves your fair. O happy fair!
    She's tickled now; her fume needs no spurs,
  Leon. By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a husband if
    A moiety of the world.
    Great men should drink with harness on their throats.
    His sons he there proclaim'd the kings of kings:
  DESDEMONA. I prithee, do so.                             Exit Iago.  
  PEDANT. Help, son! help, Signior Baptista!     Exit from above
  KING PHILIP. Amen, Amen! Mount, chevaliers; to arms!

  CHIEF JUSTICE. Well God mend him! I pray you let me speak with you.
  ANTONIO. Thus, sir:

  PORTIA. Therefore, lay bare your bosom.
  PISTOL. Die men like dogs! Give crowns like pins! Have we not Hiren
    Now we are victors, upon us he smiles.
    The same upon your finger.

              Cupid is a knavish lad,
  DESDEMONA. Why, man?
  Beat. Why, then my cousin, Margaret, and Ursula
  AUMERLE. Is Bushy, Green, and the Earl of Wiltshire dead?
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    The taste whereof God of his mercy give

    The wand'ring prince and Dido once enjoyed,
    Do not draw back your hand; I'll take no more,
    To let you know of it.
    of your husband.
ANGELO. You know I gave it you half an hour since.
  SERVANT. O master, if you did but hear the pedlar at the door, you
  IAGO. He's that he is. I may not breathe my censure
    That to close prison he commanded her,
    Till this advantage, this vile-drawing bias,
    To which is fixed as an aim or but
  FIRST SENATOR. Set but thy foot
  FALSTAFF. A rascal! to brave me!
    The meanest house in Rome, so far my son-  
    To rest awhile, some half an hour or so,
    for France.
    Majesty know to this hour is an honourable badge of the service;
    Which makes me think that this Antonio,
  Gent. Holds it true, sir, that the Duke of Cornwall was so slain?
    What will ye do?

  FALSTAFF. Well, be gone; I will not miss her.  
    They are, as all my other comforts, far hence,
     How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides,
    The thing why thou hast drawn it.
  To him that bears the strong offence's cross.  

    So 'twere not long of him; but being ent'red,
    Whom I would imitate. Consumption catch thee!
    Reigns that which would be fear'd. 'Tis much he dares,
    I fly not death, to fly his deadly doom:
    My duty on your hand.
  HIPPOLYTA. Methinks she should not use a long one for such a
    More than your enemies.
    To hear him so inclin'd.
    Did this break from her: 'Good Antigonus,
    Break up this capon.

    And generally: whoever the King favours
                           Enter Queen.
  MENAS. I think the policy of that purpose made more in the marriage
    Yet this shall I ne'er know but live in doubt,  
    That quarrels at self-breath. Imagin'd worth
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  Rey. But, my good lord-
    herd was glad he refused the crown, he plucked me ope his doublet
    counsel well.' To be rul'd by my conscience, I should stay with  
    Here, on my knee, I beg mortality,
  Claud. I pray you leave me.  
    there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five
  FOURTH LORD. Fair one, I think not so.
    The fall of every Phrygian stone will cost
    Love goes toward love as schoolboys from their books;
     a clothier's yard. Look, look, a mouse! Peace, peace; this piece
    I, in probation of a sisterhood,
  OTHELLO. Now he tells how she plucked him to my chamber. O, I see
  KING HENRY. What is that wrong whereof you both
by William Shakespeare
  QUEEN. Mischance and sorrow go along with you!
  ACHILLES. Well! why, so I do.
    When violence assails us.  
    To pay the petty debt twenty times over.

  Lear. Will you, with those infirmities she owes,
SCENE 3.
    Some comet or unusual prodigy?  
    that if she love me, I charge her to love thee; if she will not,
    legs, nor no more shoes than feet- nay, sometime more feet than
  SHALLOW. Marry, then- Mouldy, Bullcalf, Feeble, and Shadow.
  
  FIRST SOLDIER. Our sacks shall be a mean to sack the city,
    There's a double meaning in that. 'I took no more pains for those
    Though Paris came in hope to speed alone.
                       Enter MARINERS
    Commanded nature that my lady's womb,
    So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,
  Wor. The King will bid you battle presently.
    Furnish you fairly for this interchange;

    For ever the society of men.
                               Exit Cassius, with some Citizens.

  But hope of orphans, and unfathered fruit,

    Through which the lovers, Pyramus and Thisby,
    T' unbar these locks. My conscience, thou art fetter'd
    His confessor, who fed him every minute
    know on't; would I were hang'd, la, else!
    Your special mandate for the state affairs
  Par. This is that banish'd haughty Montague
    to buy ginger-bread. Hold, there is the very remuneration I had
  IACHIMO. Believe it, sir, I have seen him in Britain. He was then
  Jul. You kiss by th' book.
  CASSIUS. Have not you love enough to bear with me
     My fool usurps my body.
    This wooden slavery than to suffer
    That had in it a crannied hole or chink,
    That will I make before I let thee go.
    Let her lie still and dream. By your leave, ho!     [Knocks]
    And cannot soon revolt and change your mind.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>

  AENEAS. How now, Prince Troilus! Wherefore not afield?
    To dinner presently.
    And like. a civil war set'st oath to oath.

  PROVOST. Sirrah, here's a fellow will help you to-morrow in your
    defend thee!
    Which giveth many wounds when one will kill.
    It is the Prince of Wales that threatens thee,
    Have their free voices. Rome the nurse of judgment,
  VALENTINE. Mistress?
    Shall be my recreation. So long as nature
                            Enter Emilia.
    Then give me leave to have prerogative;
    'Tis pity bounty had not eyes behind,
  OTHELLO.                         I shall not dine at home;
    My father Glendower is not ready yet,
    And yet I needs must curse. But they'll nor pinch,
    have heard my daughter say she hath often dreamt of unhappiness
  TOUCHSTONE. As the ox hath his bow, sir, the horse his curb, and

    At our importance hither is he come
    Upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain,
  OFFICER. Here is Sir William Lucy, who with me
  PAROLLES. What one, i' faith?
  Reg. Fare thee well.                                   Exeunt.
    one knave. He lives not now that knows me to be in love; yet I am
  CROMWELL. Yes.
    'Twould fall upon ourselves.
    you, O women, for the love you bear to men, to like as much of
    Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
  Edg. Do you hear aught, sir, of a battle toward?
             By heavenly synod was devis'd,
  MARTIUS. Upon his bloody finger he doth wear
    Swill'd with the wild and wasteful ocean.
  Let him but copy what in you is writ,
     Will check him for't. Your purpos'd low correction
  LUCIO. No, indeed, will I not, Pompey; it is not the wear. I will
    And set this unaccustom'd fight aside.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE


    Was fashion'd to much honour from his cradle.
    And with a sudden re-enforcement struck
    The man I am.
    Whose credit with the judge, or own great place,
    here.

  Jul. Well, do not swear. Although I joy in thee,
  MIRANDA. But that I do not.
    That died in honour and Lavinia's cause.
    Good Rapine, stab him; he is a ravisher.
    I am too childish-foolish for this world.
    The lamb will never cease to follow him.
    Tybalt, that murtherer, which way ran he?
    We may not think the justness of each act
  ULYSSES. Amen.
    As bid me tell my tale in express words,
    brings back to him, that you attend him in the hall. He sends to
    Swears he will shoot no more, but play with sparrows,
    Nerissa teaches me what to believe:
  MAMILLIUS. A sad tale's best for winter. I have one
    Or to their own perdition.
    to-morrow, in the congregation where I should wed, there will I
    Like to the summer's corn by tempest lodged.  
          Gentle breath of yours my sails
  TIMON. Go to;

  Ber. Last night of all,
    But lend it rather to thine enemy,
    But where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain

    So I might live one hour in your sweet bosom.
    Self-loving-
    Less valiant than the virgin in the night,
    Make me acquainted with your cause of grief.
    spirits:
  Where wasteful time debateth with decay
    Romeo?
    Your carriage from the court. My noble mistress,
    The Princess of this country, and the air on't
  PETRUCHIO. What, with my tongue in your tail? Nay, come again,
    Follow my mother.                                 King dies.
    This maugre all the world will I keep safe,
  FORD. What name, sir?
       Yet that which seems the wound to kill

    Made me to blame in memory.
  Ham. How say you then? Would heart of man once think it?
    Make the hoar leprosy ador'd, place thieves
  Or my affection put to th' smallest teen,
    never be.
    And say 'Ah ha! Y'are caught.'
  DUKE SENIOR. What fool is this?
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    The Cardinal's and Sir Thomas Lovell's heads
    know it; I will confess it to all the 'orld: I need not be
    See that forthwith Duke Edward be convey'd


    How now! what news?

    Hide not thy poison with such sug'red words;
           Come, buy.
  Doug. Faith, and so we should;  
  LAFEU. Pray you, sir, who's his tailor?

    Amphimacus and Thoas deadly hurt;
    be considered.
    And last so long enough!
    Macduff lives in disgrace. Sir, can you tell
  A man is master of his liberty;
AEGEON. Dromio, nor thou?
    Look'd pale when they did hear of Clarence' death?
    His daughter meanly have I match'd in marriage;
  APEMANTUS. Traffic's thy god, and thy god confound thee!
    And watch your safety.
    he will avoid your accusation: he made trial of you only.
    To sue, and be denied such common grace.
  CAMPEIUS. Your rage mistakes us.
    What is her name?
  Alb. A herald, ho!
  Ros. Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation
  Edg. Y'are much deceiv'd. In nothing am I chang'd
    Could not take truce with the unruly spleen
  SATURNINUS. Because the girl should not survive her shame,
  MARSHAL. In God's name and the King's, say who thou art,  

    So, under Him that great supremacy,
  BOLINGBROKE. I thought you had been willing to resign.
  BRUTUS. And so it is. For this time I will leave you.
    that war hath never ent'red.
    a face-royal, for a barber shall never earn sixpence out of it;
  SIR NATHANIEL, a curate
  CHAMBERLAIN. You bear a gentle mind, and heav'nly blessings
    has not only his innocence, which seems much, to justify him, but
    Th' enfranchisement of Arthur, whose restraint
  PANDARUS. Was he angry?
    they come to him by th' gross; inkles, caddisses, cambrics,
    Let heaven requite it with the serpent's curse!  
    And grievously hath Caesar answer'd it.
  ABHORSON. Every true man's apparel fits your thief: if it be too
    no less noble, much more gentle, and altogether more tractable.
  BRUTUS. Caesar, thou canst not die by traitors' hands,
    Mock not that I affect the untraded oath;
  PISANIO. I was going, sir,
ACT II. SCENE 3.
  VIOLA. I left no ring with her; what means this lady?
    And swear with me- as, with the woeful fere  
    man's blood; and all the madness is, he cheers them up too.
    Resolve thee, Richard; claim the English crown.
    remainder of nature. Let me live, sir, in a dungeon, i' th'
    [Takes off his false beard]  How now, rustics! Whither are you
    And make a quagmire of your mingled brains.
  COUNTESS. Marry, that's a bountiful answer that fits all questions.
    Rose, be merry.
    My peace we will begin. And, Caius Lucius,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Let's each one send unto his wife,
    counsellor; if you can command these elements to
    Is partly to behold my lady's face,
  To make him much outlive a gilded tomb:
    the Welsh devil, Hugh?
  FLAVIUS. O my lord,
  AMIENS, lord attending on the banished Duke
  Of his own doors being shut against his entrance.
  OTHELLO. It is the cause, it is the cause, my soul.
    not have me, choose.' He hears merry tales and smiles not. I fear
    together now-a-days. The more the pity that some honest
         'To her let us garlands bring.
    "Break up the Senate till another time,
    I'll then nor give nor hazard aught for lead.
  PATROCLUS. Within his tent; but ill-dispos'd, my lord.  
OFFICER. I do arrest you, sir; you hear the suit.
    But, as I think, it was by th' Cardinal;
    Your provost knows the place where he abides,
  Other. Why, he had none.

  MIRANDA. You have often


    He that hath suffer'd this disorder'd spring
    Arm, arm, you heavens, against these perjur'd kings!
    You do not purpose to him- and as hardly
    For he's inclin'd as is the ravenous wolf.
  FALSTAFF. Now, the report goes she has all the rule of her
    The head of Ragozine for Claudio's:
    Let each man do his best; and here draw I
  SURVEYOR. After 'the Duke his father' with the 'knife,'
    You'll mar it if you kiss it; stain your own
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. Good sir, speak it to us.  

    The justice and the truth o' th' question carries

    And bid my will avouch it, yet I must not,

    Nothing so certain as your anchors, who
    Some heavenly music-which even now I do-
    Have I not heard the sea, puff'd up with winds,
    And follow'd with a rabble that rejoice
    Shall find their deaths, if York can prophesy.  
    That keep her from her rest.
is of mine own making; and what, indeed, I should say will, I doubt,
    They smile at me who shortly shall be dead.           Exeunt
  YORK. Look in a glass, and call thy image so:
  LORDS. What, my good lord?
    sweet heart, let that pass. By the world, I recount no fable:
     slept in the contriving of lust, and wak'd to do it. Wine lov'd
    Is now a widower.
    Here is Cominius.
  CORIOLANUS. Hail, lords! I am return'd your soldier;  
    much on the new form that they cannot sit at ease on the old
    Our eldest, Malcolm, whom we name hereafter
    Shall lose a hair through Bassanio's fault.

    God and good angels fight on Richmond's side;
    Say, is my kingdom lost? Why, 'twas my care,
  'That not a heart which in his level came
    As is fair Margaret he be link'd in love.
     heart- a small spark, all the rest on's body cold. Look, here
    give fools money get themselves a good report after fourteen
    Virtue is chok'd with foul ambition,
    'Tis the ninth hour o' th' morn.
  BAPTISTA. A thousand thanks, Signior Gremio. Welcome, good Cambio.
    With no less terror than the elements

    With barbarous ignorance, and deny his youth
  SIWARD. We learn no other but the confident tyrant
  HASTINGS. Why, knows not Montague that of itself
  POINS. Why, because you have been so lewd and so much engraffed to
    will subscribe for thee. Farewell.

  SURREY. 'Tis no counterfeit.  
    And twenty glow-worms shall our lanterns be,
    I am to get a man- whate'er he be
    On some known ground of treachery in him?
  SEBASTIAN. But, for your conscience-
    If we are mark'd to die, we are enow
    By aught that I can speak in his dispraise,
    That I do fawn on men and hug them hard

    Full often, like a shag-hair'd crafty kern,
    Let's have one other gaudy night. Call to me
    And yet the painter flatter'd her a little,
  CAESAR. Welcome to Rome.
    Must render up myself.
    And wish for all that, that I had not kill'd them.
  PORTIA. The quality of mercy is not strain'd;
    To follow me and praise my eyes and face?
    chang'd for Antenor; thou must to thy father, and be gone from
  MALVOLIO. 'I may command where I adore.' Why, she may command me: I
    Consent upon a sure foundation,
  TIMON. Promise me friendship, but perform none. If thou wilt not
Enter SHALLOW and SILENCE, meeting; MOULDY, SHADOW, WART, FEEBLE, BULLCALF,
    If we would have you.
    with you.           Exeunt MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and
    Will return'd shall know you are come home.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. This secret is so weighty, 'twill require
    Is not Gaunt dead? and doth not Hereford live?
    Between our statures; she hath urg'd her height;
    A Roman thought hath struck him. Enobarbus!
    The benediction of these covering heavens
    is to have you understand me that he is sufficient; yet his means
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  Gon. Combine together 'gainst the enemy;
    My Lord of Somerset, at my request,
  MENAS. Who would not have his wife so?
    says is here now in the house, by your consent, to take an
    For 'tis to such a thing-
  BOTTOM. Thisby, the flowers of odious savours sweet-
  Home to your house, the Phoenix, sir, to dinner.

    another; the weight of a hair will turn the scales between their
    The Prince of Wales, Lord John of Lancaster,
    Both of his truth and him-which was too far-
    You shall not go; a lady's 'verily' is
    Where, like Arion on the dolphin's back,
    Mars's hot minion is return'd again;  
                                        Exeunt SHALLOW and EVANS  

    But that I did proceed upon just grounds
  CHARLES. Go, call her in.                       [Exit BASTARD]
    Than is a slave in base servility;  
    Self-mettle tires him. Not a man in England
  FLORIZEL. No, he must not.
    Look on't again I dare not.
  HOLOFERNES. Sir, you shall present before her the Nine Worthies.

  IMOGEN. I am nothing; or if not,
  Queen. Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak.
  The one doth shadow of your beauty show,
  CURTIS. Let's ha't, good Grumio.
  ESCALUS. I guess not.
  MARIA. Say you so? Fair lord-
  Oph. Ay, my lord.
    other or have fall'n both.

  Lear. No rescue? What, a prisoner? I am even

    Of him I was about to call his father-
    I cross'd the seas on purpose and on promise
    Present yourself, desire his service, tell him
  IAGO. He, he, 'tis he. [A chair brought in.] O, that's well said:
                 CLOWN, MOPSA, DORCAS, with OTHERS
  OLIVER. O that your Highness knew my heart in this!
    Strike up our drums, pursue the scatt'red stray.
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, reading a letter; LEPIDUS, and their train
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Cast off his chains of bondage, and embrace
                                                       [Exeunt.]
     hear us confer of this and by an auricular assurance have your
             I hold you a penny,
  Edm. A herald, ho, a herald!
    Though tongues were out of use.
  All aids, themselves made fairer by their place,
  Bora. I came yonder from a great supper. The Prince your brother is
    Such as I am. Though for myself alone
    intolerable deal of sack! What there is else, keep close; we'll
    And swearing till my very roof was dry
                                               [Seeing the body]
  A WIDOW

  HASTINGS. The tender love I bear your Grace, my lord,
    How does his Highness?
                                            [Exit an Attendant.]
  BOLINGBROKE. [Drawing] Villain, I'll make thee safe.
  GAUNT. No, no; men living flatter those that die.
    there? What are you?
    For the mutable, rank-scented meiny, let them

         Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
                                            Exeunt, leading off MELUN
    The nature of our seats, and make the rabble
    Between his purpose and his conscience,
    Doth weep to see his grandsire's heaviness.
    news at court. For the robbery, lad- how is that answered?  
    French-crown-colour beard, your perfect yellow.
    Deck'd in thy rights, as thou art stall'd in mine!
    Of guns and drums and wounds- God save the mark!-
    At hours unmeet, or that I yesternight
  PHRYNIA AND TIMANDRA. More counsel with more money, bounteous
the EARL of SURREYS and others
  CLEOPATRA. Though age from folly could not give me freedom,
    And by these badges understand the King.
  TWO GENTLEMEN, prisoners with Suffolk
  SIR Toby. You mistake, knight. 'Accost' is front her, board her,
    getting a hundred bastards, he would have paid for the nursing a
    Is the great love the general gender bear him,
    You had not show'd them how ye were dispos'd,
    And so, have at thee!                           [They fight]
  YORK. He was-why so go all which way it will!
    With sorrowful water? Now I see, I see,
  CLOWN. A fool, sir, at a woman's service, and a knave at a man's.
    The Earl of Armagnac, near knit to Charles,
    Give even way unto my rough affairs;
    Will bring me to consider that which may
    kind.
    't, and I have a disguise to sound Falstaff. If I find her
    Vile earth, to earth resign; end motion here,
    Shall play the empire, arbitrating that
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
                            Enter a SCOUT
    Will easily be granted. [To Northumberland] You, my lord,

  KING. Arise, and take place by us. Half your suit
    of the twenty to follow mine own teaching. The brain may devise
  Ham. Alas, poor ghost!
    Action and accent did they teach him there:
  Fal. Now, my masters, happy man be his dole, say I. Every man to
  BRUTUS. Good or bad?

  BIANCA. Good sister, wrong me not, nor wrong yourself,
  Hor. This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.  
  How many gazers mightst thou lead away,
SALISBURY and WESTMORELAND
    Smile in men's faces, smooth, deceive, and cog,
  GLOUCESTER. Why, this it is when men are rul'd by women:
    And hugg'd me in his arms, and swore with sobs
  Gon. Did my father strike my gentleman for chiding of his fool?
    To his surname Coriolanus 'longs more pride
    to whose feeling sorrows I might be some allay, or I o'erween to
    Both sides are even; here I'll sit i' the midst.
    in his age. Shall quips and sentences and these paper bullets of
    Sleeping neglection doth betray to loss
    To plead your cause. It shall be therefore bootless
    Here's many else have done, you shout me forth
    supplications in the quill.
    Do themselves homage. These fellows have some soul,
    In most accepted pain.
    Some monstrous malefactor. Prithee, friend,
     To let him live. Where he arrives he moves
  JAQUES. To him will I. Out of these convertites
    me into this apparel.
  PROTEUS. As one relying on your lordship's will,
                          Re-enter THURIO
  I see, a better state to me belongs
    Hop'st thou my cure?
    and wak'd herself with laughing.
    Could make him the receiver of; which he took,
Enter Friar [Laurence].
    Both dame and servant; welcom'd all; serv'd all;
    Hath full relation to the penalty,
                     [Climbs the wall and leaps down within it.]
  IAGO.                  Touch me not so near:

    But in her company there is a Moor;
    Art thou a man? Thy form cries out thou art;
    To build his fortune I will strain a little,
  VALENTINE. How long hath she been deform'd?  
    Bring them to our embracement.                        Exeunt
    The sudden breach on't.
  Leon. Which is the villain? Let me see his eyes,  
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Show me one scar character'd on thy skin:
    I am beholding to you. Cheer your neighbours.
  SHEPHERD. Fie, Joan, that thou wilt be so obstacle!
        Enter in skirmish, the retainers of GLOUCESTER and
  Both. Ay, by heaven, my lord.  
    And groaning underneath this age's yoke,
    And given in earnest what I begg'd in jest.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  ANTONY. Pardon me, Caius Cassius.
<Exeunt all but ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE, ANTIPHOLUS OF
  GRATIANO. My Lord Bassanio gave his ring away
    Even at his father's house, the old Andronicus.
  AGAMEMNON. Your mind is the clearer, Ajax, and your virtues the
                                             [Pointing to LAFEU]
    so full of gold?

    All use of quittance.
    Of teaching and of learning instantly.
    You ha' done me a charitable office.  
  YOUNG SIWARD. What is thy name?
    That fear to hate; and hate turns one or both
    You cannot guess who caus'd your father's death.
  CRESSIDA. Peace, for shame, peace!
    By the stern brow and waspish action
    For, heaven to earth, some of us never shall
    You put sharp weapons in a madman's hands.
    For, as he writes, there is no quailing now,
  BOTH TRIBUNES. Say not we brought it.
  ANTONIO. And, sowing the kernels of it in the sea, bring
    What, Ariel! my industrious servant, Ariel!
  PRINCE HUMPHREY OF GLOUCESTER
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  THERSITES. Nay, look upon him.  

           What is love? 'Tis not hereafter;

    When we would bring him on to some confession
    Haste there before us. I constantly believe-
    For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
    enterprise. We pray you, for your own sake, to embrace your own
  ULYSSES. The great Achilles, whom opinion crowns
    Write in the dust this sentence with thy blood:
    To put apart these your attendants,
    To arms invasive? Shall a beardless boy,
  MONTAGUE. And I unto the sea, from whence I came.
    Witch's mummy, maw and gulf

  PAGE. Let's obey his humour a little further. Come,
    Or some of you shall smoke for it in Rome.

    How much unlike art thou to Portia!
    Believe so much in him, that he is young,
  But you shall shine more bright in these contents
  ANTONIO. How have you made division of yourself?
    By laying defects of judgment to me; but
    Which we will second. When he lies along,

    Can touch him further.
  CASSIUS. Good, I will expect you.
  BEROWNE. Devils soonest tempt, resembling spirits of light.
    Talks as familiarly of roaring lions
                                                         Exeunt.
    How will their grudging stomachs be provok'd  
    Is like that mirth fate turns to sudden sadness.
    I will not leave the half-achieved Harfleur
  TITUS. I give him you- the noblest that survives,
    But, worthy lords, have you with heed perused
    afternoon?
    them; if Caesar had stabbed their mothers, they would have done
  FERDINAND. No, as I am a man.
    When death doth close his tender dying eyes,
    Myself I'll dedicate. Let me make men know
    Thy mind to her is now as low as were
    Behold her topp'd?
    Because I will be guiltless from the meaning.
  POSTHUMUS. O, no, no, no! 'tis true. Here, take this too;
    I must acquaint you that I have receiv'd
    That you extol me thus?

    from the wall and thrust his maids to the wall.

                  and Officers with Iago, prisoner.
    A traitor you do look like; but such traitors
    And yet the spacious breadth of this division
    In that each of you have forsworn his book,
    goose.
    If this be so, as yet the glass seems true,
  ORLANDO. To her that is not here, nor doth not hear.
    Than the performance of our heaving spleens,
  SECOND SOLDIER. How now, masters!
    Or shall we think the subtle-witted French
    Tell Athens, in the sequence of degree
    And lies, and lies. There is my bond of faith,
    Is ours already, and the man entire
    In praise of Henry Percy. By my hopes,


  EMILIA. Hath she forsook so many noble matches,
    When a jest is so forward- and afoot too- I hate it.
    That didst set up my disobedience 'gainst the King
    office, awakens me with this unwonted putting-on; methinks
    Which both thy duty owes and our power claims;

    Than keep in peace that hand which thou dost hold.
    God, and not we, hath safely fought to-day.
  But I confess, sir, that we were lock'd out.
  CLOWN. In Isbel's case and mine own. Service is no heritage; and I
  PETER. Peter, forsooth.
    With what great state he heard their embassy,
  SOLDIER. By Hercules, I think I am i' th' right.
    A lass unparallel'd. Downy windows, close;
  JAQUENETTA. Fair weather after you!
    O, pardon me for bringing these ill news,
  KATHARINE. 'Tis long of you, that spur me with such questions.
    Th' adulterate Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey,
    Flying between the cold moon and the earth
    Then say if they be true. This mis-shapen knave-
    jig; I would not so much as make water but in a sink-a-pace. What
    and my waist slenderer.
    This grave shall have a living monument.
    Thy crazed title to my certain right.
              'Cuckoo;  
    If thou dar'st bring them to the baiting-place.
    Clarence, who I indeed have cast in darkness,
  Supposed as forfeit to a confined doom.
  Beat. I would rather have one of your father's getting. Hath your
    They are not yet come back. But I have spoke
    Would they make peace? Terrible hell make war
  ALCIBIADES. Hard fate! He might have died in war.
    Bars me the right of voluntary choosing.

    For had the passions of thy heart burst out,
  CRESSIDA. How now! What's the matter? Who was here?  
    Think him a great way fool, solely a coward;  
    Go, by this token. Rise, and lend thine ear.      [Whispers]
    the seventh, the Lie Direct. All these you may avoid but the Lie
    Whiles lions war and battle for their dens,
    And- God consigning to my good intents-
    I'll send those powers o'er to your Majesty.
    I, that have neither pity, love, nor fear.
    in his bed- wash every mote out of his conscience; and dying so,  

    Is Edward your true king? for I were loath
    Fare you well; had you such a loss as I,
    And beggar'd yours forever?
                                                 Exit Messenger.
    Beside five hundred prisoners of esteem,
  CLOWN. How do you now?

    And my desires, like fell and cruel hounds,
  Ay me, but yet thou mightst my seat forbear,
  Poins. Come, your reason, Jack, your reason.
    Into the madness wherein now he raves,
    Be guilty of the stealing that sweet breath
  Jul. I come, anon.- But if thou meanest not well,
    Wherefore my father should revengers want,
    Free from a stubborn opposite intent,
    If they demand; beware of being captives
    And I expressly am forbid to touch it;
    By the misprizing of a maid too virtuous
    Set your entreatments at a higher rate
  ANTONY. To flatter Caesar, would you mingle eyes
    fall to it with our teeth.

    And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
Edward's camp, near Warwick
    In celebration of this day with shows,
    We mourn: France smiles. We lose: they daily get-
  ROSALIND. How say you now? Is it not past two o'clock?
    Seems bruited. Let me find him, Fortune!
    But if you know not this, my manners tell me
    Cressida to this Troilus.
    There left behind and settled certain French;
    With amplest entertainment. My free drift
    Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
  SICINIUS. Therefore lay hold of him;
  MACBETH. Go bid thy mistress, when my drink is ready,
    marriage?
    follow youth and opulency.
    when I shall (first asking your pardon thereunto) recount the
  John. Let us to the great supper. Their cheer is the greater that  
  OTHELLO. What, now?
  ROSS. My heart is great; but it must break with silence,
  DICK. They are all in order, and march toward us.
    O that your face were not so full of O's!
    That she is issue to a faithless Jew.
  SUFFOLK. Then, that without the knowledge
    upon thee. The glorious gods sit in hourly synod about thy
    An hour of revels with 'em.
    Thorough the hazards of this untrod state
    And this shall seem, as partly 'tis, their own,  
  HECTOR. Paris and Troilus, you have both said well;
  Hor. O, where, my lord?
    Or you stol'n his? or both? Pray, what's the news?
    I'll after, more to be reveng'd on Eglamour  
    And, though he in a fertile climate dwell,
  PETRUCHIO. Go, rascals, go and fetch my supper in.
    And left me bare to weather.
  King. If it be so, Laertes
    The image of a wicked heinous fault
    any more of it?
    And bring in cloudy night immediately.
    I have sent twenty out to seek for you.
    Seemeth their conference; their conceits have wings,


WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    For raising this sea-storm?

  Ham. Safely stow'd.
  WARWICK. Trust me, my lord, all hitherto goes well;
  QUICKLY. How say you? O, I should remember him. Does

    Which cannot perish, having thee aboard,
  Prince. Now, sirs. By'r Lady, you fought fair; so did you, Peto; so
    Though in this place most master wear no breeches,
    So in approof lives not his epitaph
SCENE III.
    And by that fire which burn'd the Carthage Queen,
      Vows for thee broke deserve not punishment.
    But when he meant to quail and shake the orb,  
    A trembling upon Rome, such as was never
    I will not be your friend, nor enemy;

    With most admired disorder.
  GLOUCESTER. Come, Warwick, take the time; kneel down, kneel down.  
  And threescore year would make the world away:
    And here, to pledge my vow, I give my hand.
    And he hath cut those pretty fingers off
    Question your Grace the late ambassadors
    Which if thou follow, this strict court of Venice

    O, in a tomb where never scandal slept,
  GRATIANO. I have a wife who I protest I love;
    Where Henry and Dame Margaret kneel'd to me,
  SECOND SERVANT. By my hand, I had thought to have strucken him with
    To demonstrate the life of such a battle
  Without all bail shall carry me away,
  AGRIPPA. What, are the brothers parted?
  KING RICHARD. I have been studying how I may compare
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Till then, fair hope must hinder life's decay.
    honester men than thou go in their hose and doublets.
  IMOGEN. False to his bed? What is it to be false?
    Then threw he down himself, and all their lives
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. What, in metre?
     No father his son dearer. True to tell thee,
    To his experienc'd tongue-yet let it please both,
    But, sure, he's proud; and yet his pride becomes him.
  TIMON. Flavius!

    And ten to one you'll meet him in the Tower.
  How oft when thou, my music, music play'st,
    And all is semblative a woman's part.
  CALIBAN. Beat him enough; after a little time, I'll beat
  MARTEXT. Truly, she must be given, or the marriage is not lawful.
    [Within: Good master porter, I belong to th' larder.]
    No, uncle, I'll none. Adam's sons are my brethren, and truly I
    Retain but privilege of a private man?
  CORIOLANUS. Say then; 'tis true, I ought so.
    This mad young man. But so much was our love
  To be diseased ere that there was true needing.
  Nurse. Anon, anon!
    But hear these ill news with the ears of Claudio.
    But there the Duke was given to understand
     old ornament of his cheek hath already stuff'd tennis balls.
             Enter DERCETAS With the sword of ANTONY
    To th' discontented members, the mutinous parts

    He had not my virginity.
  WESTMORELAND. Is your assembly so?
  PORTIA. I had it of him. Pardon me, Bassanio,
  SERVANT. The gods forbid!
  THIRD SOLDIER. Do you hear, masters? Do you hear?
  LORD SAY
    'I shall beseech you'-That is question now;
  That thou art then estranged from thyself?
    Sirrah, get thee to Plashy, to my sister Gloucester;
  YORK. Marry, my uncle Clarence' angry ghost.
  NORFOLK. Grievingly I think
    Nor of them look for such observancy
    to-morrow be at the height of heart-heaviness, by how much I
  LADY MACBETH. Pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends,
    dragon; he has wings, he's more than a creeping thing.
    And now to London all the crew are gone
  GAUNT. Sister, farewell; I must to Coventry.

    Thou comest to use thy tongue; thy story quickly.  
  DUKE. Not so, not so; his life is parallel'd
                       Enter CALIBAN
  BOTH. Sir, good success!
    What grief hath set these jaundies o'er your cheeks?

     old rat and the ditch-dog, drinks the green mantle of the
    You judge it straight a thing impossible
    Is almost come.  [To the SPIRITS]  Well done; avoid; no
    And, doubling that, most holy. Your means abroad-
  SCRIVENER. Here is the indictment of the good Lord Hastings;
    me to try a fall. To-morrow, sir, I wrestle for my credit; and he
    Concluding 'Stay; not yet.'
  Take all my loves, my love, yea take them all,
    I do engage my life.
    cut like a calf.
LUCE, servant to Adriana
    The common voice do cry it shall be so.
    My hate to Marcius. Where I find him, were it
    Burn'd on the water. The poop was beaten gold;
    And all probation, will make up full clear,
    Make head against my estimation!
  FALSTAFF. What stuff wilt have a kirtle of? I shall receive money a
    Lewis and the Lady Bona send to him.
    For when his headstrong riot hath no curb,
    Nurse!- What should she do here?
    Lives not alone immured in the brain,  
    Now put your shields before your hearts, and fight  
    Than to suspicion.
  ENOBARBUS. What's thy passion?
ACT III. SCENE 2.
    Give some supportance to the bending twigs.
    Yet touch this sparingly, as 'twere far off;
    For yet is hope of life and victory.
    but for inflammation. A good sherris-sack hath a two-fold
    That sticks on filthy deeds.
    medlar for thee; eat it.
  Nurse. O lamentable day!
    Remnants of packthread, and old cakes of roses
    That holy duty, out of dear respect,
  AENEAS. Hail, all the state of Greece! What shall be done
  Spending again what is already spent:
  CLEOPATRA. My salad days,
  TROILUS. Grecian, thou dost not use me courteously
  Yet if men moved him, was he such a storm
Enter Banquo.
    As misers do by beggars-neither gave to me
    You must be father to your brother's daughter,  
    Of any prince so wild a libertine.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    To execute the like upon thyself;
    times on the head, and three times was his nose discharged
    Than by the tiger; but when the splitting wind
  Doug. All's done, all's won. Here breathless lies the King.

    The trusty Thisby, coming first by night,
    And bow'd his eminent top to their low ranks,
    I say, bid come before us, Angelo.         Exit an ATTENDANT
    me of the carriage.
    She might 'a been a grandam ere she died.  
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  insconce it too; or else I shall seek my wit in my shoulders.
Exit.
  Blunt. Shall I return this answer to the King?
    So stain our judgment, or corrupt our hope,
    'Twas bravely done, if you bethink you of it.
    But here without you shall be so receiv'd
    from Master Slender.
  CHAMBERLAIN. As far as I see, all the good our English

              Enter some, bringing in the CLERK OF CHATHAM  


    Her shoulder is with child.
    That all the court admir'd him for submission.
  BELARIUS. [Looking into the cave] Stay, come not in.
    But he and his shall know that justice lives
    That labouring art can never ransom nature
    All strange and terrible events are welcome,

    As Paris hath. Beshrew my very heart,
    He does it under name of perfect love;
    My friends and brethren in these great affairs,
    To the young Roman boy she hath sold me, and I fall
    after it indifferent well; for there is figures in all things.
    Say I love Brutus and I honor him;  
    Henceforth I will not have to do with pity:
    Till I had made mine own occasion mellow,
    God pless your Majesty!
    And to the field goes he; where every flower

    I will dismount, and by thy waggon wheel
    Made scruple of his praise, and wager'd with him
  PISTOL. With wit or steel?
    Still lamenting and mourning for Suffolk's death?
    To strike me, spurn me, nay, to kill me too;
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    But here they live to end.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    They that of late were daring with their scoffs
  The meat is cold because you come not home,
  Wor. Hear you, cousin, a word.
  FLUELLEN. By Cheshu, he is an ass, as in the world: I will verify
     Seest thou this object, Kent?
  And therefore let me have him home with me.
    But till 'twere known!
  BRUTUS. No, Cassius, no. Think not, thou noble Roman,
    Uncase thee; take my colour'd hat and cloak.
    ourselves to an unknown fear.
    O Margaret, thus 'twill be; and thou, poor soul,
    Alas, how should you govern any kingdom
  Gon. You strike my people, and your disorder'd rabble

    All these, well furnish'd by the Duke of Britaine,  
    Than in his feats deserving it, for him
  PAGE. I will not believe such a Cataian though the priest o'  
    marry thee; and to that end I have been with Sir Oliver Martext,
    I could beat forty of them.
    But if all aim but this be levell'd false,
    might leave pricking it for pity. Come, you shall go with us.
    Of horsemen that were levied for this siege!
    Are rid like madmen through the gates of Rome.
  Kent. But who is with him?
    For though abundantly they lack discretion,
  AGUECHEEK. What is 'pourquoi'- do or not do? I would I had bestowed
  So is the time that keeps you as my chest
  LADY FAULCONBRIDGE. Hast thou denied thyself a Faulconbridge?
    So bold Leander would adventure it.
    But in a fainter kind- O, not like me,
    Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are.
    And bring our horses unto Long-lane end;
  ARIEL. I drink the air before me, and return
    I say, away!- Go on. I'll follow thee.
  COMINIUS. On, to the Capitol.

    And still proclaimeth, as he comes along,
    Seest thou this letter? Take it up, I pray thee,
    Where thou mayst knock a nail into his head.
    And long hereafter say unto his child
    forbid, sir, but a knave should have some countenance at his
    Prevail not, go and see. If you can bring
    night.
    shallow. A better instance, I say; come.
    I would he lov'd his wife; if he were honester
SCENE 3.
    With slaughter's pencil, where revenge did paint

    at the least, if the love of soldier can suffice-that I love

  TIMON. [Aside] I'll meet you at the turn. What a god's gold,
    for, indeed, who would set his wit to so foolish a bird?
    Weigh'd not a hair of his. Plague of your policy!
    Be us'd more thankfully. In himself, 'tis much;
    Alack the day! he's gone, he's kill'd, he's dead!
    And strong enough to issue out and fight.
  SOMERVILLE. At Southam I did leave him with his forces,
    Ah, what a shame were this! Look on the boy;
  MENENIUS. Pray now, sit down.
  RUTLAND. So looks the pent-up lion o'er the wretch
    More daring or more bold, is now alive
    Made up to th' deed- doth push on this proceeding.  
                 Enter SALISBURY
    With grant of our most just and right desires;
    Art ignorant of what thou art, nought knowing
    Good day, Camillo.
  ARMADO. Sweet smoke of rhetoric!
                     37
  SIR TOBY. Why, man, he's a very devil; I have not seen such a
  That I should be attach'd in Ephesus,
    conscience) find no impediment to the contrary, to be the trumpet
  CRANMER.  [Kneeling]  And to your royal Grace and the
    If Salisbury wants mercy at thy hands!
    Their softest touch as smart as lizards' stings!
    And stands upon the honour of his birth,
    To your own conscience, sir, before Polixenes
    The sight of me is odious in their eyes;

    Even in the soul of sound good-fellowship-
    Let your best love draw to that point which seeks
    laid on twelve for nine, and it would come to immediate trial
    Howe'er repented after.
toward COMINIUS and CAIUS MARCIUS, enters with a LIEUTENANT, other soldiers,
  CLIFFORD. How now, is he dead already? Or is it fear
    up your Grace's request in my stead. I beseech you let his lack
    He that unbuckles this, till we do please
    Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
  ALONSO. What, all so soon asleep! I wish mine eyes
  GLOUCESTER. Why, what, I pray, is Margaret more than
  FIRST CITIZEN. We'll burn the house of Brutus.
                     Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS, AGRIPPA, MAECENAS
  SLENDER. By these gloves, then, 'twas he.
     Blanket my loins, elf all my hair in knots,
  NERISSA. How say you by the French lord, Monsieur Le Bon?
        While I, their king, that thither them importune,
  SICINIUS. Help, ye citizens!
  MARCUS. Now is my turn to speak. Behold the child.
  DERBY. He is, my lord, and safe in Leicester town,
    Invest me in my motley; give me leave
    Cousin, a word: where is your husband?
  KING PHILIP. I may disjoin my hand, but not my faith.  
    the Prince's own person. If you meet the Prince in the night,
    Crams his rich thievery up, he knows not how.
    They take for natural father. The game is up.           Exit
    But now I am return'd and that war-thoughts
    The air hath got into my deadly wounds,
    You taught me how to know the face of right,
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. That a king's children should be so convey'd,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    to-morrow! I that was wash'd to death with fulsome wine,
    I'll be in these tirrits and frights. So; murder, I warrant now.
    And I do know by this, they stay for me
    On my particular. Prepar'd I was not

                   Enter the GHOST of BUCKINGHAM
  A youthful suit- it was to gain my grace-
  CYMBELINE. Thus far; and so farewell.
    the vicar of the next village, who hath promis'd to meet me in
  ANTONIO. O, out of that 'no hope'
    How long her face is drawn! How pale she looks,
    Suitors to her and rivals in my love;
    In several hands, in at his windows throw,
  KING RICHARD. Well, let that rest. Dorset is fled to

    Than prosecute the meanest or the best
  
ADRIANA. Where is thy master, Dromio? Is he well?
    That ever turn'd their- backs- to mortal views!
  THURIO. I thank you for your own. Now, gentlemen,
    profess requital to a hair's breadth; not only, Mistress Ford, in
                        Enter VALENTINE

    And no more words till they have flow'd their fill.  
  ROSALIND. Not one to throw at a dog.
    And what's in prayer but this twofold force,
    That thou might'st repossess the crown in peace;

  CRESSIDA. But how should this man, that makes me smile, make Hector
    Some base notorious knave, some scurvy fellow.
     Fall'n into taint; which to believe of her
  SECOND MURDERER. O that it were to do! What have we done?
    Who can bring noblest minds to basest ends!
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Whisper her ear and tell her, I and Ursley
  TAMORA. These are my ministers, and come with me.
    Would not entreat for life?
    You will set cock-a-hoop! you'll be the man!
    unlook'd for, and there's an end.                      Exit.
  LEONTES. Why, that was when
  HASTINGS. Our present musters grow upon the file
    The mutual conference that my mind hath had,
  SPEED. I tell thee my master is become a hot lover.
    Stands in worse case of woe. And thou, Posthumus,
  VALENTINE. Why, lady, Love hath twenty pair of eyes.
    I think he will stand very strong with us.
  Ham. Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats
  Beat. A dear happiness to women! They would else have been troubled
  FIRST LORD. What will Count Rousillon do then? Will he travel
  PHEBE. I would not be thy executioner;
                     62
      behold
    come in when ye will.                                  Exit.
    And his enforcement of the city wives;

  Thy black is fairest in my judgment's place.

     Gods, gods! 'tis strange that from their cold'st neglect
  They look into the beauty of thy mind,

    Eating the air and promise of supply,
    This praise doth nourish agues. Let them come.
    Accountant to the law upon that pain.
ABBESS. Whoever bound him, I will loose his bonds,
    It is familiar-but at the author's drift;
  DIOMEDES,     "     "      "
    And little Ned Plantagenet, his son?
    Of him that, his particular to foresee,
  IAGO.                                           What,
ANGELO. Come, come, you know I gave it you even now.
                       Enter MALVOLIO
    Commits itself to yours to be directed,
    Now where is he that will not stay so long
    sad?
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  DESDEMONA. It is not lost; but what an if it were?
    his neck.                            Exit one with the CLERK
    With Tybalt's slander- Tybalt, that an hour
  PISTOL. Why, then the world's mine oyster. Which I with
  ANTONIO. Why, what of him?
    His coming hither hath no further scope

    a piece of tender air; and when from a stately cedar shall
  BRUTUS. You are my true and honorable wife,
    What hath this day deserv'd? what hath it done
    Beyond you to your friends.
Rome. TITUS' house
    That I have wept a hundred several times.
  HOLOFERNES. But you have outfac'd them all.
  Found yet moe letters sadly penned in blood,
    At three and two years old, I stole these babes,
<Exit
                                           [She falls the sword]
    A mother only mock'd with two fair babes,
    This is some changeling. Open't. What's within, boy?
    Of your chaste daughter the wide difference
    I have consider'd well his loss of time,
    Brief abstract and record of tedious days,
    I'll pray a thousand prayers for thy death,
  PETRUCHIO. Here, sir! here, sir! here, sir! here, sir!
  PLANTAGENET. Since you are tongue-tied and so loath to speak,
    'Tis strange he hides him in fresh cups, soft beds,  
  HUBERT. I am much bounden to your Majesty.
    For I must think of that which company
    Which with a bounteous hand was kindly lent;
    You offer him, if this be so, a wrong
  Her sober virtue, years, and modesty,
                          Enter PHILOTUS
  PISTOL. O base Hungarian wight! Wilt thou the spigot
    But long I will not be Jack out of office.  
  KATHARINE. To my fortunes and me.
    All that impedes thee from the golden round,
    palm of my hand than he shall get one off his cheek; and yet he
    For, as the case now stands, it is a curse
     rascal, nature disclaims in thee; a tailor made thee.
    reward him! If I do grow great, I'll grow less; for I'll purge,
  And made my self a motley to the view,
    For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,

    choose a man. Romeo? No, not he. Though his face be better than
    My father made in compassing the crown!
    they be out of service.

    To send it me.
    And but one meal on every day beside,
  FLUELLEN. You say very true, scald knave- when God's will is. I
    Some of us love you well; and even those some

    And grief that young Octavius with Mark Antony

    That I have fondly flatter'd her withal.
  EXTON. 'Have I no friend?' quoth he. He spake it twice
FIRST MERCHANT. Sir, I commend you to your own content.
  ENOBARBUS. Alexas did revolt and went to Jewry on
          Was the Hero that here lies.
  MALCOLM. [Aside to Donalbain.] Why do we hold our tongues,
    his heart was not consenting to.
    that one need not lend to another; for were your god-heads to
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. I am inform'd that he comes towards London
    Thou wouldst have poison'd good Camillo's honour,  
  BERTRAM. I have to-night dispatch'd sixteen businesses, a month's
  IACHIMO. Thanks, fairest lady.  

  SIMPLE.  [Aside to QUICKLY]  'Tis a great charge to come
    We are beastly: subtle as the fox for prey,
  EMILIA. You told a lie, an odious, damned lie;
  SHEPHERD. Why, Sir?
    The happy tidings of his good escape.

    Out-sweet'ned not thy breath. The ruddock would,
      Music. Re-enter CUPID, witb a Masque of LADIES as Amazons,
  CLEOPATRA. My resolution and my hands I'll trust;
    my daughter, she is, by this, Doctor Caius' wife.
  SALERIO. We have not spoke us yet of torch-bearers.
    And marry her at Eton.-Go, send to Falstaff straight.

  Prince. Heigh, heigh, the devil rides upon a fiddlestick!
    curious-knotted garden. There did I see that low-spirited swain,  
    Free me so far in your most generous thoughts  
    Fraught with the ministers and instruments
    I' th' bottom of a cowslip. Here's a voucher
    That hath not noble lustre in your eyes.
    For I must hence; and farewell to you all.
    His humble ambition, proud humility,
    Or that we women had men's privilege
    Give up thy staff; Henry will to himself
  DUKE. Were you sworn to the Duke, or to the deputy?
  CHARLES. 'Tis Joan, not we, by whom the day is won;
     That you must lose a husband.
    Which is a pound of this poor merchant's flesh,
    By self-example mayst thou be denied.
  Doth half that glory to the sober west
    Since thou wert king- as who is king but thou?-
    Which but three glasses since we gave out split-
     That can my speech defuse, my good intent
    Hath she forgot already that brave prince,
    Scarce is dividant- touch them with several fortunes:
    This from a dying man receive as certain:

    To punish my mistreadings. Tell me else,
    And tell me now, sweet friend, what happy gale
  LADY MACDUFF. He had none;
  Friar. Marry, this well carried shall on her behalf
  To thy sweet will making addition thus.
    Forslow no longer; make we hence amain.               Exeunt
    And never shall have length of life enough
  You say he din'd at home: the goldsmith here
    Deliver with more openness your answers
SCENE V.
    sir?
    That virtue must go through. We must not stint  
    deliver this paper into the royal hand of the King; it may
    were dead at my foot, and the jewels in her ear; would she were

    Believe her lips in opening it. Proceed.
    To give me conquer'd Egypt for my son,
    Receive him then to favour, Saturnine,
  KATHERINA. I will be angry; what hast thou to do?
    Toward heaven, to pardon blood; and I have built
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Dissembling harlot, thou art false in all,

  Alb. Methought thy very gait did prophesy
    My forces and my power of men are yours;
           Enter CAESAR, ANTONY, LEPIDUS, and OCTAVIA
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    There is a mystery-with whom relation
  EXETER. This was a merry message.
    Orphans for their parents' timeless death-
    For's private friends; his answer to me was,
  ROSALIND. By my troth, and in good earnest, and so God mend me, and
  Kent. No, do not.
    I will your serious and great business scant  
    I do not say I am one; but I have a hand. Why tribute? Why should
  Lear. Pray, do not mock me.
    And pluck'd two crutches from my feeble hands-
  And tear the stain'd skin off my harlot-brow,
    Which I denying, they fell sick and died-
    There pinch the maids as blue as bilberry;
     I crave no more than hath your Highness offer'd,
  Cap. O, God-i-god-en!
  AUFIDIUS. Insolent villain!
    And see where comes the breeder of my sorrow!
  DUMAIN. To look like her are chimney-sweepers black.
  CELIA. Will you go, coz?
  FALSTAFF. Well then, Colville is your name, a knight is your
    But you are more inhuman, more inexorable-
    And we are women's men.
               And turn his merry note
    down.
  Old Man. Ay, my lord.
    Madam, I would not wish a better father.
  CELIA. They are but burs, cousin, thrown upon thee in holiday
  FIRST LORD. The good time of day to you, sir.
    And mark my greeting well; for what I speak
    Before thy hour be ripe? O foolish youth!

  LUCIO. I pray she may; as well for the encouragement of the like,
    'tis yours.
     That art incestuous. Caitiff, in pieces shake  
  SERVANT. Please your Highness, posts
    No more a soldier. Bruised pieces, go;
    For any, or for all these exercises,
  SHALLOW. It is an old coat.
    For both of you are birds of self-same feather.
  MISTRESS QUICKLY, servant to Doctor Caius
    Like a phantasma or a hideous dream;
  BIANCA
  Wor. What I have done my safety urg'd me to;
    As you have whisper'd faithfully you were,
    Whose duty is deceivable and false.
                                                 Exit Attendant.
    Than carry it but by the suit of the gentry to him

  EDWARD. And now the battle's ended,

  ANTONY. Old Cassius still!
    Now go with me and with this holy man
    By them shall make a fuller number up,

  CELIA. Doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son dearly?
    Of my word, I have written to effect;
  RODERIGO. And that you would have me to do?
  CAIUS. Vere is Mistress Page? By gar, I am cozened; I ha'
    but bound to't.
  HELENA. That I wish well. 'Tis pity-
                                           [Drinks to HORTENSIO]
    headed monster. A most scurvy monster! I could find in
Friar Laurence's cell.

ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Good Signior Angelo, you must excuse us all;
                                        Exeunt BERTRAM and LORDS
    For I can take, and Pistol's cock is up,
  Else would he never so demean himself.
  At the wood's boldness by thee blushing stand.

  GLOUCESTER. By so much is the wonder in extremes.
     Which scarcely keeps thee warm. But, for true need-
    Then not in Britain must you bide.
    For hear her but exampled by herself:
  CLOTEN. Senseless? Not so.
    But to support him after. Fare you well.
    to have seen much and to have nothing is to have rich eyes and
  Poins. Where hast been, Hal?
    daughter tell you how.  
    Comb down his hair; look, look! it stands upright,
    Rather than so, come, Fate, into the list,
  SURREY. Has the King this?
    I know a bank where the wild thyme blows,
  Pedro. How then? sick?  
    And so, I pray you, tell him. Furthermore,
    last night; who, if 'a live and ever dare to challenge this
    But sound the trumpets and about our task.
    As when his god is pleas'd.
    And flaky darkness breaks within the east.
     Dwells in the fickle grace of her he follows.
    He questioned me, amongst the rest demanded
  BRUTUS. Do so, and let no man abide this deed
    For our access- whose hap shall be to have her  
                                      [BEROWNE tears the letter]
  TITUS. Peace, tender sapling; thou art made of tears,
  CLAUDIO. I have done so, but he's not to be found.
  VIOLA. My legs do better understand me, sir, than I understand what
     Return those duties back as are right fit,
  KING. What ring was yours, I pray you?
    Stand in our way. There's for thy labour, Montjoy.
    my wife, Master Doctor, is for you altogether.
    merry world in England since gentlemen came up.
    And our twelve thousand horse. We'll to our ship.
    of nature'-
  Claud. Yet say I he is in love.


    me which with as much safety you might answer him; therefore on,
  KATHERINA. The moon? The sun! It is not moonlight now.
  DORSET. It touches you, my lord, as much as me.

    Than the severity of the public power,
    A sure destruction.
  PRINCE. No, uncle; but our crosses on the way
                   Enter a MESSENGER  
    Hath left me gag'd. To you, Antonio,  
    And only stays but to behold the face
    For 'twas that hand that gave away my heart.
  Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.  
     i' th' middle. Here comes one o' the parings.
    even now to be afresh lamented. Say to me, when saw'st thou the
    Who then recovers. Say thou art mine, and ever
  YORK. What then?
    And he whose wife is most obedient,
    I cannot strike at wretched kerns, whose arms
    will never please. First, Pyramus must draw a sword to kill
    When he shall come to his account, he knows not
    Uneven is the course; I like it not.
  HORTENSIO. I do assure thee, father, so it is.
    a blush tinsel. But for a fine, quaint, graceful, and excellent
    Which I will over-pay and pay again
    brake our tiring-house; and we will do it in action, as we will
  FIRST SENATOR. This is the tenour of the Emperor's writ:

    When these so noble benefits shall prove
    Scurvy jack-dog priest! By gar, me vill cut his ears.
  KATHERINA. In his tongue.
  POMPEY. Sir, she was respected with him before he married with her.  
    Unfold the imagin'd happiness that both
    There must we bring him; and myself have play'd
    fruit dish, a dish of some three pence; your honours have seen
  HUBERT. He shall not live.  
  Clown. For no man, sir.
    Th' idea of her life shall sweetly creep
  LEONTES.  [Aside]  Too hot, too hot!
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. And you, sir, for this chain arrested me.
     when thou gav'st thy golden one away. If I speak like myself in
  HELENA. Something; and scarce so much; nothing, indeed.
    Where, if it please you, you may intercept him.
  LEONTES. Never, Paulina; so be blest my spirit!
  Ham. Sir, I cannot.
    O gentle Proteus, Love's a mighty lord,
    That call'd me timelier than my purpose hither;
                    Re-enter SERVANT, with wine
    And do him right that, answering one foul wrong,
  
  Pol. Ay, springes to catch woodcocks! I do know,
  LUCETTA. I do not seek to quench your love's hot fire,
    Lords, with one cheerful voice welcome my love.
  LORENZO. So are you, sweet,
  FLUELLEN. 'Tis no matter for his swellings nor his turkey-cocks.
    It lifted up it head and did address
  Queen. As kill a king?
  WOLSEY. What should this mean?
    Or do but lift this arm, the best of you
    Why should we in our peevish opposition
  RICHARD. Northumberland, I hold thee reverently.
    And not provok'd by any suitor else-
  King. Bear Worcester to the death, and Vernon too;
    And stol'st away the ladies' hearts of France,
    Be merry, for our time of stay is short.
    For I am fresh of spirit and resolved
    Where is the Earl of Wiltshire? Where is Bagot?
    Who least will seem to do so- my past life
    my remembrance is very free and clear from any image of offence
    Requires to live in Egypt; which not granted,
    the indentures be drawn, I'll away within these two hours; and so
    Let life be short, else shame will be too long.       Exeunt
    ought to be used.
  CASSIO. I pray you, pardon me; I cannot speak.
Enter BUCKINGHAM, DERBY, HASTINGS, the BISHOP of ELY, RATCLIFF, LOVEL,
  MENAS. Why?
    made in your best coat, Master Ford. This 'tis to be
    at Milford Haven; she hath my letter for the purpose; where, if
    And blindfold death not let me see my son.
    Approach, rich Ceres, her to entertain.
  FIRST SENATOR. He's now in Florence.
    dwell near him; or the church stands by thy tabor, if thy tabor
    'Have I no friend will rid me of this living fear?'

    bleed tears; for I am sure my heart wept blood. Who was most
    Alas, I look'd when some of you should say
    Remember Margaret was a prophetess.'
    To scourge you for this apprehension.
  Cap. Tush, I will stir about,
    Do not embrace me till each circumstance
    held his hand. Well, on went he for a search, and away
    Wrapp'd in sweet clothes, rings put upon his fingers,
  EDMUND LANGLEY, Duke of York - uncle to the King
    Strives Bolingbroke to be as great as we?
    Proud can I never be of what I hate,
  FERDINAND. No, my dearest love,
    More like a king, more kingly in my thoughts;
    Will parley with Jack Cade their general.
  LAUNCELOT. Do I look like a cudgel or a hovel-post, a staff or a
    So are those crisped snaky golden locks
    Harry the Sixth bids thee despair and die.
  MOPSA.       O, whither?

    Lord of our presence, Angiers, and of you.
    knocking at the door!
                                             Flourish and shout.
  GLOUCESTER. The curse my noble father laid on thee,
  PEASEBLOSSOM. Hail, mortal!  
    Dear sir, to my endeavours give consent;
         O mistress mine, where are you roaming?
    that?
    Venetian, a scholar and a soldier, that came hither in company of
    A Grecian and his sword, if he do set
                                              [A march afar off]
  CANIDIUS. Who's his lieutenant, hear you?
    Makes mouths at the invisible event,  
    Address'd a mighty power; which were on foot,
     Deliver'd letters, spite of intermission,
    Come, go with me apart; I will withdraw,
    drink; sorry that you have paid too much, and sorry that you are
    And, having sworn truth, ever will be true.
  SUFFOLK. Say, gentle Princess, would you not suppose
    Their sweetest shade a grove of cypress trees!
    Give order to my servants that they take
    I lov'd the maid I married; never man
    Lucius our Emperor; for well I know  
    Sweet varied notes, enchanting every ear!
    Which made the fault that we cannot correct,
    for mine own part, I durst not laugh for fear of opening my lips
    Thou art a cure fit for a King.  [To CAMPEIUS]  You're
    If I can check my erring love, I will;
    Allots thee for his lovely bed-fellow.
    The King and all the peers are here at hand.

    In being so blest! There may be in the cup
    and a woman's crupper of velure, which hath two letters for her
    cannot yet find in my heart to repent. Here he comes; I pray you
  BEDFORD. His ransom there is none but I shall pay.
    Master Copperspur, and Master Starvelackey, the rapier and dagger
  YORK. From Ireland thus comes York to claim his right
  NOBLEMAN. My gracious lord, Henry your foe is taken
    In thy dumb action will I be as perfect
    The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike,
    Pegasus, chez les narines de feu! When I bestride him I soar, I
    But, out alas! here have we found him dead.

    These that I bring unto their latest home,
    If you had pleas'd to have defended it
  KING EDWARD. Brave followers, yonder stands the thorny wood
    Come, come, thou boy-queller, show thy face;

  FIRST CITIZEN. I will hear Brutus speak.
    for your society.
  DUKE. What would you, Desdemona?  
    If this be known to you, and your allowance,
    But hollow men, like horses hot at hand,


  PORTIA. Then must the Jew be merciful.
  And, about evening, come yourself alone
    Makes only wars on thee. Bid them all fly;
  MOTH. A wonder, master! here's a costard broken in a shin.
    Anjou and Maine both given unto the French!
  EVANS. But that is not the question. The question is
    Be round impaled with a glorious crown.
     I'ld speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife.
     But for all this, thou shalt have as many dolours for thy
    I oft deliver'd from his forfeitures
                              Exeunt all but LYSANDER and HERMIA
    See if thou canst outface me with thy looks;
    You four, from hence to prison back again;
    That eyes, that are the frail'st and softest things,
  NORFOLK. He is vex'd at something.
    My gay apparel for an almsman's gown,
    Because this is in traffic of a king.
  If he should scorn me so apparently.

    The meat was well, if you were so contented.
    And put the Englishmen unto the sword.
    Of their breath only!
  TRANIO. 'Twas a commodity lay fretting by you;
    sit till you come.
  LUCETTA. Lord, Lord! to see what folly reigns in us!

    And his physicians fear him mightily.
    As make your bouts more violent to that end-
    May hold him from the Capitol today.
    I do beseech your Majesty may salve  
    And lose advantage, which doth ever cool
    Against her maiden truth. Call me a fool;
    speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and
  MACBETH. Let's briefly put on manly readiness
    Shall be the war that Henry means to use.
    As thou dost swallow up this good king's blood,
    William of Windsor was the seventh and last.  
  As I'll my self disgrace, knowing thy will,
  BIANCA. Believe me, sister, of all the men alive
    More fertile-fresh than all the field to see;
    His face still combating with tears and smiles,
    There Diomed doth feast with him to-night,
  WARWICK. Will't please your Grace to go along with us?
                   Enter DIOMEDES, below

    The nobility are vex'd, whom we see have sided
    If circumstances lead me, I will find

    I say, my sovereign, York is meetest man
     But love, dear love, and our ag'd father's right.
    Would fain have come with me to meet your Grace,
    Which lets go by some sixteen years and makes her
  SOMERSET. Good Master Vernon, it is well objected;
    That thou so many princes at a shot
    A Florentine more kind and honest.

  AUFIDIUS. If I fly, Marcius,

  Then hate me when thou wilt, if ever, now,
  Namely, some love that drew him oft from home.
    Under his chance. If we draw lots, he speeds;
                                  [Here they bear away his body]
  KING HENRY. And long live thou, and these thy forward sons!
    How able such a work to undergo-

    Poor gentleman! his wrong doth equal mine.
  TITUS. Rise, Marcus, rise;
    And leave you to your graver steps. Hermione,
  Prince. Thou speak'st as if I would deny my name.
  ORLANDO. Who's there?

  out of doors with it when I go from home; welcom'd home
    You have done a brave deed. Ere you go, hear this:
  PROSPERO. Dost thou forget
  Make war upon this bloody tyrant Time?
  CLOWN. Fare thee well. Remain thou still in darkness: thou shalt
ACT V. Scene I.
  FIRST MUSICIAN. We have none such, sir.
    Straight will I bring you to the loathsome pit
    Navarre shall be the wonder of the world;
  Demand of him, nor being desired yielded;
    That could have better sew'd than Philomel.
    all greediness of affection are they gone, and there they intend
  FIRST OUTLAW. Why, ne'er repent it, if it were done so.
    To say 'She is a goodly lady' and
  She keeps thee to this purpose, that her skill
  POMPEY. Truly, sir, I am a poor fellow that would live.
    I can no longer hold me patient.                 [Advancing]
    would take the pains but to examine the wars of Pompey the Great,
    entertainment. What I am and what I would are as secret as
    And put thy fortune to the arbitrement
    Whereof I know she is not ignorant.
    be the last of the next month.
  FENTON. No, heaven so speed me in my time to come!
  ARMADO. By virtue thou enforcest laughter; thy silly thought, my
    This was so and no slumber. Dreams are toys;
  EMILIA. She said so; I must needs report the truth.
    But on! Six Barbary horses against six French swords, their
DUKE. I tell thee, Syracusian, twenty years
  BASTARD. Hang nothing but a calf's-skin, most sweet lout.
  TALBOT. I laugh to see your ladyship so fond
    The strongest nerves and small inferior veins
    By seeming cold or careless of his will;
    Must bring this monstrous birth to the world's light.
    That want no ear but yours.
    You know an enemy intends you harm;
    why is it?
    And I beseech you instantly to visit

    Mount, mount, my soul! thy seat is up on high;
    Why should Titania cross her Oberon?
    This might have been prevented and made whole
    We will stay your leisure.
London. The Tower
    With nothing shall be pleas'd till he be eas'd
    My brother he is in Elysium.

    The way into his mercy. Nay, if he coy'd
    First, he commends him to your noble self.
    For Imogen's dear life take mine; and though
  Ham. Good.  
  BRUTUS. Why then, lead on. O, that a man might know
    By letters congruing to that effect,
  VIOLA. Most certain, if you are she, you do usurp yourself; for
    Hath drops too few to wash her clean again,
  BERTRAM. I cannot love her, nor will strive to do 't.

    But, like a misbhav'd and sullen wench,
                             Exeunt BIANCA, KATHERINA, and WIDOW
    He has the stamp of Marcius, and I have

  OTHELLO. By heaven, that should be my handkerchief!
  PERCY. No, my good lord; he hath forsook the court,

    So can I name his faults.

  SHYLOCK. Why, then the devil give him good of it!
  VIOLA. The captain that did bring me first on shore
    Let's see how it will give off.  
    What think you, if he were convey'd to bed,
    Her widowhood, be it that she survive me,
    than one voluptuously surfeit out of action.
   DUMAIN. The Great.
    Thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her,
    Sleep shall neither night nor day
    And justice always whirls in equal measure.
  AARON. Why, there's the privilege your beauty bears:
  CLIFFORD. Thy father hath.
     A credulous father! and a brother noble,
                                          [Lies down and sleeps]
  But by and by rude fishermen of Corinth
                       Re-enter PETRUCHIO  
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Take some remembrance of us, as a tribute,
           The quintessence of every sprite
  Thou say'st his meat was sauc'd with thy upbraidings:
    The last was I that felt thy tyranny.
  BIANCA. Is it for him you do envy me so?
  King. My blood hath been too cold and temperate,
    of him.
  FALSTAFF. What shall I do? I'll creep up into the chimney.
  BASSANIO. Most worthy gentleman, I and my friend
  HERMIA. I am amaz'd, and know not what to say.            Exit
  OLIVIA. Come to what is important in't. I forgive you the praise.
Exit.
    thou art now one of the greatest men in this realm.
    That swift as quicksilverr it courses through
    Which if thou please to hide in this true breast
    Of that and all the progress, more and less,
    And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
    The Britaine navy is dispers'd by tempest.
    And have a thousand times more cause than he
    Mark our contract.
  MENAS. Y'have said, sir. We look'd not for Mark Antony here. Pray
            Enter NURSE, with a blackamoor CHILD  
  GLOUCESTER. Thy son I kill'd for his presumption.

             Enter DUKE, VIOLA, CURIO, and LORDS
    Nor as we are, we say, we will not shun it.
Paris. The KING'S palace
  FIRST SERVANT. Let me have war, say I; it exceeds peace as far as
  SILVIA. Have done, have done; here comes the gentleman.
Eastcheap. The Boar's Head Tavern.
ANGELO. Not once nor twice, but twenty times you have.
    But lusty, young, and cheerly drawing breath.
    God on my knees thou mayst be turn'd to hobnails. [Here they  
    His knell rung out, his judgment, he was stirr'd
    Two curs shall tame each other: pride alone
    Would think upon you for your voices, and
    With drooping fog as black as Acheron,
    And, having lost her breath, she spoke, and panted,
    My well-known body to anatomize
    That we may call it early by-and-by.
    Of bare distress hath ta'en from me the show
     whipp'd for speaking true; thou'lt have me whipp'd for lying;
    An if your Grace mark every circumstance,
     The oldest have borne most; we that are young

  MOPSA.     Or thou goest to th' grange or mill.
    And thou art flying to a fresher clime.
  Alb. Half-blooded fellow, yes.
  CLOWN. You're a made old man; if the sins of your youth are
  ROBERT. My gracious liege, when that my father liv'd,
    'As true as Troilus' shall crown up the verse
    Unless I look on Silvia in the day,
    Upon the company you overtake?  
    Where never man's eye may behold my body;
    Leaps o'er the vaunt and firstlings of those broils,
    husband had him of. What do you call your knight's
  WARWICK. There is a history in all men's lives,
  TIMON. Ay, that I am not thee.

    Then judge, great lords, if I have done amiss,
  Bene. Enough, I am engag'd, I will challenge him. I will kiss your
    Like rivers of remorse and innocency.
by William Shakespeare
  CRESSIDA. So he is.

    Our own precedent passions do instruct us
  Friar. Come, is the bride ready to go to church?
         Here a cry of hounds, and wind horns in a peal.
  CHAMBERLAIN. What a loss our ladies

  ANNE. 'Tis more than you deserve;
    And how desirous of our sight they are.
    To view with hollow eye and wrinkled brow
  ARMADO. Now, by the salt wave of the Mediterraneum, a sweet touch,
    Thy death, which is no more. Thou art not thyself;
    with begging.
    O thou that dost inhabit in my breast,
  GHOST.  [To RICHARD]  Let me sit heavy on thy soul
  HORTENSIO. Sir, a word ere you go.
    Against the churches, though the yesty waves

    forester?

    Can be retentive to the strength of spirit;
                          Enter PROTEUS
    Than is Prometheus tied to Caucasus.  
    labour
  If there be nothing new, but that which is,
  HELEN. You must not know where he sups.
    For wooing here until I sweat again,
  my service but blows. When I am cold he heats me with
  YOUNG SIWARD. No, though thou call'st thyself a hotter name
  BAPTISTA. What, in my sight? Bianca, get thee in.
by William Shakespeare
    We, Hermia, like two artificial gods,
    Let's leave the hermit Pity with our mother;
  KING HENRY. O, how this discord doth afflict my soul!
    And hope to joy is little less in joy
  POMPEY. I beseech you, sir, look in this gentleman's face. Good
  SIR TOBY. You, sir! Why, what are you?
    Nay, do not pause; for I did kill King Henry-
    As amply and unnecessarily
  CELIA. It pleases him to call you so; but he hath a Rosalind of a
    In the next chamber.
    Of present dues. The future comes apace;
    I would not care, I then would be content;
    'Tis as impossible that he's undrown'd
    What Cressid is, what Pandar, and what we?
    That chamberers have, or for I am declined
    My mind was never yet more mercenary.
    attend:
    No; let my father seek another heir.

                              march
   But that his wildness, mortified in him,
  ROSALIND. Ay, go your ways, go your ways. I knew what you would
    believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your
    Do climate here! You have a holy father,
    lisping hawthorn-buds that come like women in men's
  YORK. Alas, what joy shall noble Talbot have
  Guil. Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start
    water his urine is congeal'd ice; that I know to be true. And he
    Forborne the getting of a lawful race,
    After this cold considerance, sentence me;

LUCIANA. Why call you me love? Call my sister so.
    That I would set my life on any chance,
  ORLANDO. And so am I for Rosalind.
  Askance and strangely: but by all above,
    Even in the milk-white bosom of thy love.  
SCENE V.
    To him forthwith in holy wedlock bands.
    Upon a parchment, and against this fire
    But to torment you with my bitter tongue!
    The eye wink at the hand; yet let that be
    Thy gravestone daily; make thine epitaph,
    And call in question our necessities.
    But in mine emulous honour let him die
    For mine own part unfold a dangerous speech,
    Apollo would, this being indeed the issue
    'Good den, Sir Richard!'-'God-a-mercy, fellow!'  
  Gon. You see how full of changes his age is. The observation we
    Than any woman in this waning age.
    What, up and down, carv'd like an appletart?
    And, as I think, they have already order
SCENE II.
  LOVELL. That churchman bears a bounteous mind indeed,
    Hath heard your praises; and this night he means
    Sir John Bracy from your father. You must to the court in the
    You do not give the cheer. The feast is sold
    And, honest company, I thank you all
  PORTIA. I pray thee over-name them; and as thou namest them, I will

    My horse, my ox, my ass, my any thing,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. The fairest is confession.
    And, ere I part with thee, confer at large
    Lest in our need he might infect another
                         Enter Hamlet.
    march forward.                                        Exeunt
    That is, were I under the terms of death,
           Why she dares not come over to thee.
    know, or jump the after-inquiry on your own peril. And how you
    of caraways, and so forth. Come, cousin Silence. And then to bed.
    Come to the matter.
    In our black sentence and proscription.
    love, and they will together. Clubs cannot part them.

  WESTMORELAND. Then, my lord,
  PANDARUS. Nay, I am sure she does. She came to him th' other day
    In one of those same sheets.
    Bid him repair to me, and bring with him
  MENAS,      friend to Pompey

    Dear gentlewoman,
    To follow still the changes of the moon
    In music, instruments, and poetry,
  KATHARINE. O for your reason! Quickly, sir; I long.
    And of their feather many moe proud birds,
Venice. A street
    When this was now a king, and now is clay?

  Mar. Nor I, my lord.
  Bare ruined choirs, where late the sweet birds sang.
    Against whom comest thou? and what's thy quarrel?
    till sack commences it and sets it in act and use. Hereof comes


  Prince. Thou judgest false already. I mean, thou shalt have the

    Herself most chastely absent. After this,
    love with the wenches' song that he would not stir his pettitoes
  To blush at speeches rank, to weep at woes,
  LUCIUS. It is my duty, sir.
  Fal. To be hang'd.
  YORK. Then swear allegiance to his Majesty:
    Requite your love!
   O, pardon! since a crooked figure may
    And grow big-bellied with the wanton wind;
    On some apparent danger seen in him
    Like a poor beggar raileth on the rich.
  FALSTAFF. Let the court of France show me such another. I  
Enter JULIA and LUCETTA
    brains are forfeit to the next tile that falls.
  HIPPOLYTA. Beshrew my heart, but I pity the man.
     The winged vengeance overtake such children.
  

  JOHN. So he had need, for 'tis threadbare. Well, I say it was never
    The head and source of all your son's distemper.
  TIMON. Nay, my lords, ceremony was but devis'd at first
    My son is lost; and, in my rate, she too,
    that miracle. Yet, in a sort, lechery eats itself. I'll seek
  MENAS. Enobarbus, welcome!
  GLOUCESTER. O Nell, sweet Nell, if thou dost love thy lord,  
  Edg. Now fare ye well, good sir.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    You that be noble; help him, young and old.
  NORFOLK. And I to Norfolk with my followers.
    How much unlike my hopes and my deservings!
    The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look
  AGRIPPA. Rare Egyptian!
  DIOMEDES. Thou dost miscall retire.
    And shamefully my hopes by you are butcher'd.
  ORLANDO. There was no thought of pleasing you when she was
    Upon the pikes o' th' hunters. Then began
  Pedro. It is the witness still of excellency
    For Talbot means no goodness by his looks.
                                        Exeunt Juliet and Nurse.
    pike bent bravely, and to surgery bravely; to venture upon the
    Pinch him and burn him and turn him about,
  BEROWNE. How much is it?
    Fine linen, Turkey cushions boss'd with pearl,
                               Exeunt PROLOGUE, PYRAMUS, THISBY,
    Lest that their hopes prodigiously be cross'd;

    That Suffolk should demand a whole fifteenth
    Troy must not be, nor goodly Ilion stand;
  LEONTES. My true Paulina,
    Upon entreaty have a present alms;
    But milk my ewes and weep.
  Therefore, merchant, I'll limit thee this day

    Take him and cut him out in little stars,
  CADE. Nay, he nods at us, as who should say 'I'll be even with

    And meet the time as it seeks us. We fear not
    Live each of you the subjects to his hate,
    If thou vanishest, thou tell'st the world  
    Laid nobly on her; which perform'd, the choir,
    The greatest man in England but the King.             Exeunt
    To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
  GOWER. Why, the enemy is loud; you hear him all night.
  Kent. Well, sir, the poor distressed Lear's i' th' town;
    To ease the gnawing vulture of thy mind
    Adonis painted by a running brook,
    And make a riot on the gentle brow
  Ham. Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell.
The orchard at Swinstead Abbey
    A graceful gentleman, against whose person,
  PISANIO. O my all-worthy lord!
    Grew, by our feeding to so great a bulk
  FABIAN. Nothing of that wonderful promise, to read him by his form,
  PORTIA. We have been praying for our husbands' welfare,
    And with a look so piteous in purport

  KING PHILIP. So by a roaring tempest on the flood
    Be not amaz'd, there's nothing hid from me.
    All, all, cry shame against me, yet I'll speak.
    Falstaff. I'll play Percy, and that damn'd brawn shall play Dame
  MACBETH. She should have died hereafter;
  Fal. Rare words! brave world! Hostess, my breakfast, come.
  NERISSA, her waiting-maid
    But Thomas, my dear lord, my life, my Gloucester,
    And from that torment I will free myself

  ARCHIDAMUS. I think there is not in the world either malice or

    For love, thou know'st, is full of jealousy.

    Unworthy thee- if ever henceforth thou
    of Percy's mind, the Hotspur of the North; he that kills me some
    Now is it Rome indeed, and room enough,
  HERMIA. You speak not as you think; it cannot be.
    Should reign among professors of one faith.
  ARRAGON. What is here?  [Reads]
  Above a mortal pitch, that struck me dead?
  GRANDPRE,    "    "

    That France must vail her lofty-plumed crest
  COUNTESS. His sole child, my lord, and bequeathed to my
    honour.
    And have the money by our father lent,
    jade. 'Item: She can milk.' Look you, a sweet virtue in a maid

    Made Britain India: every man that stood
    tightly;
    [Exeunt all but OLIVIA and VIOLA] Give me your hand, sir.
    Is eaten by the canker ere it blow,
    Where most it promises; and oft it hits

  RICHARD. Three glorious suns, each one a perfect sun;
    I know, is such a wrest in their affairs
  An if the wind blow any way from shore,
  Tyb. What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?
  HUBERT. Upon my soul-
  Rom. What shall I swear by?
  AMBASSADOR. May't please your Majesty to give us leave
    And no way canst thou turn thee for redress
    Is added to her wounds. I think withal
    And therefore may be broke without offence.  
    I had rather hear you to solicit that
    Offic'd with me. We two will walk, my lord,
    forehead.
                                            [HOLOFERNES retires]
  Bene. Ho! now you strike like the blind man! 'Twas the boy that
    with a Barbary hen, if her feathers turn back in any show of  
    And that no man might draw short breath to-day  
  CLEOPATRA. Pray you, stand farther from me.
    Then, what it was that next came in her eye,
    To watch the coming of my punish'd duchess.
  AUFIDIUS. He approaches; you shall hear him.
    How to choose right, but then I am forsworn;
  DENNIS,     "     "   "
    shall have wrong.
  Corn. 'Tis best to give him way; he leads himself.
  MONTGOMERY. To help King Edward in his time of storm,
  Peto. No, no, they were not bound.
  Lady. Why, how now, Juliet?
    more.
    And all to make away my guiltless life.
    My dearest master, your dear son, may hie.
    And great affections wrestling in thy bosom
  Thy face hath not the power to make love groan;
  VINCENTIO. Fear not, Baptista; we will content you, go to; but I
  SANDYS. I would I were;
    Against the Romans with Cassibelan,
    thy master's use!
  BUCKINGHAM. Look I so pale, Lord Dorset, as the rest?
    must tell thee this: Desdemona is directly in love with him.
    That play'st so subtly with a king's repose.
  A GAOLER


SCENE II.

  CALPURNIA. Here, my lord.
    extant?
  Beat. No, truly, but in friendly recompense.  
    And look upon, as if the tragedy  
    Is the fair hand that writ.
    The grave doth gape and doting death is near;
       Enter the DUKE OF GLOUCESTER, with his serving-men

    Up with the tent! Come, noble gentlemen,
  TALBOT. For aught I see, this city must be famish'd,
    liberty 'twould sure southward.
  Thou art an elm, my husband, I a vine,
    You, gracious couple, do. And then I lost-
    That they may have their wages duly paid 'em,

  GAUNT. To be a make-peace shall become my age.
    For then 'tis like I should forget myself.
    And with submissive loyalty of heart

    I am less proud to hear you tell my worth
  EVANS. Peace your tattlings. What is 'fair,' William?
    John de la Car, my chaplain, a choice hour
  KING. If we did think
Enter Prince and Poins.
    education. This is it, Adam, that grieves me; and the spirit of  
    The wolves have prey'd, and look, the gentle day,

  BUSHY. Madam, your Majesty is too much sad.
    A brother's dead love, which she would keep fresh  
    So fare my limbs with long imprisonment;
    Ere I let fall the windows of mine eyes.

    His valour, coin, and people, in the wars?
    Give fire; she is my prize, or ocean whelm them all!    Exit
    The country, our dear nurse, or else thy person,
    Which on my faith deserves high speech, and straight
    A fine musician to instruct our mistress;
  KING RICHARD. Thou hast said enough.
  HARCOURT
  CASSIO.                  Yet, I beseech you,
    That longs for everything that he can come by.
    And mingle with the English epicures!
  IMOGEN. [Aside] These are kind creatures. Gods, what lies I have
           Re-enter ARIEL, with the MASTER and BOATSWAIN
    Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
  TRANIO. I' faith, he'll have a lusty widow now,
           Or a keeper with my freedom,


    If you repay me not on such a day,
    God save the King! although I be not he;
    Because it is an enemy to thee.
      and other Romans, OFFICERS and soldiers; the dead body
  SPEED. Well, your old vice still: mistake the word. What news,
    Of basilisks, of cannon, culverin,
              Enter LANCASTER, CLARENCE, GLOUCESTER,  
    it as it ought to be, you must allow vox.
    Where they did spend a sad and bloody hour;  
  CORIOLANUS.  [To his wife and mother]  Your hand, and yours.

    We love our people well; even those we love
  LARTIUS. Marcius, his name?

    To taunt at slackness. Canidius, we  
  CORIOLANUS. Saw you Aufidius?
  DIANA. She then was honest.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. How was it?
    Nor never needed that I should entreat,
    As you, Lord Angelo, have still appear'd,
                        Enter another Carrier.

    constant men be Troiluses, all false women Cressids, and all
    say it: I'll swear it.
    Under whose warrant I impeach thy wrong,
  KING EDWARD. He's sudden, if a thing comes in his head.
    It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate,
    I ratify this my rich gift. O Ferdinand!
                Enter the Ghost in his nightgown.
                 Enter another MESSENGER with a letter
    There is no more such masters. I may wander
                     15
    whole again; you shall piece it out with a piece of your
  VIOLA. I am no fee'd post, lady; keep your purse;
    Bushy and Green, I will not vex your souls-
    would repent.
  IAGO. You cannot, if my heart were in your hand;
    chin.
     him. Pray you let's hit together. If our father carry authority
    The sun to course two hundred compasses,
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Alas, sweet wife, my honour is at pawn;
    possess'd her.
    That we for thee may glorify the Lord.
    That I have reconcil'd your friends and you.  
                                                [Gives a paper.]
  SURREY. Dishonourable boy!
    Of burning youth.
  Samp. I do bite my thumb, sir.
    For here he doth demand to have repaid
    But I might master it. In faith, I lie;
  PAGE. Here's no man.
    Hold little faith, though thou has too much fear.
                          Enter FORD
    Strike off this score of absence. Sweet Bianca,
    That my most jealous and too doubtful soul
  John. What proof shall I make of that?
    To speak of horrors- he comes before me.
  Lear. I thank thee, fellow. Thou serv'st me, and I'll love thee.

  AEMILIUS. Come, come, thou reverend man of Rome,
    Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
  KING. What her is this?

    They shall be ready at your Highness' will
    And the moon changes even as your mind.
    Hark how Troy roars; how Hecuba cries out;
    Her waspish-headed son has broke his arrows,
                           [Exeunt. Alarum, and chambers go off]
    By means whereof his Highness hath lost France.
    To reave the orphan of his patrimony,
    The King enacts more wonders than a man,
    O fine villain! A silken doublet, a velvet hose, a scarlet cloak,
  GRUMIO. Why, she hath a face of her own.

  MACBETH. Infected be the 'air whereon they ride,
    To blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends,
    They break their faith to God as well as us.
    Forthwith a power of English shall we levy,
    Envenoms him that bears it!



  WILLIAMS. An't please your Majesty, 'tis the gage of one that I
    That now is lying in Marseilles road.
    His second marriage shall be publish'd, and
    That in their country did them that disgrace  
    Unto my cell.
    O, I were damn'd beneath all depth in hell,
    With ravishing division, to her lute.
  VALENTINE. Neither.
    Whose private with me of the Dauphin's love
  MOTH. They do not mark me, and that brings me out.
    Let the high office and the honour go
    The issue of the next son should have reign'd.
  RIVERS. My Lord of Gloucester, in those busy days
     So old and white as this! O! O! 'tis foul!

    What holier than, for royalty's repair,  
    swam in a gondola. [Exit JAQUES] Why, how now, Orlando! where
    He gave you all the duties of a man;
  DIOMEDES. Nay, then-
  DUKE. Many that are not mad

  BRUTUS. But is this true, sir?
    Her infinite cunning with her modern grace
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED

    The taints and blames I laid upon myself,
    Shadowing their right under your wings of war.
  POSTHUMUS. So they must,
      dead-
    best in picture; and what I saw, to my good use I rememb'red. My
    Till he have cross'd the Severn. Happiness!
  GRATIANO. A Daniel still say I, a second Daniel!

    Or thou, the greatest soldier of the world,
  DUMAIN. Dark needs no candles now, for dark is light.
    pleas'd me, complexions that lik'd me, and breaths that I defied
    And case thy reputation in thy tent,
  ARIEL. Confin'd together

  MOTH. A man, if I live; and this, by, in, and without, upon the
    Is prisoner to the foe; his state usurp'd,
    All that you speak shows fair.
  FIRST OUTLAW. Come, come.
    Whose eye beck'd forth my wars and call'd them home,
  DIOMEDES. To-morrow will I wear it on my helm,  
         Re-enter DENNY, With CRANMER
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    fit too? The rather- saving reverence of the word- for 'tis said
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Have you forgot the Duke of Hereford, boy?
  Ham. My fate cries out
  A mean woman was delivered
  Oph. You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
    He'd make an end of thy posterity.
    Which sounded like a clamour in a vault,
    The neighs of horse to tell of her approach
  QUEEN. Great King of England, and my gracious lord,
    And in the Duke's behalf I'll give my voice,
  Ham. You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so

    fain speak with you, and be acquainted with you; and hath
  Enter Constables [Dogberry and Verges, with the Watch, leading]
    What! wilt thou not? Where is that devil's butcher,
    To think what follows.
    Be thereat glean'd, for all the sun sees or
      shall know your mind.
  HASTINGS. Besides, the King hath wasted all his rods
           Alarums, excursions. Enter QUEEN MARGARET,
    Till then I banish thee, on pain of death,
  CHARLES. These news, my lords, may cheer our drooping

  Edm. Nor in thine, lord.
    But what should go by water. Prithee, tonight
  GUIDERIUS. The noise is round about us.
  Crawls to maturity, wherewith being crowned,
    they speak English?
    A boar spear in my hand; and- in my heart
Earl of Westmoreland
    servingman than ever she bestow'd upon me; I saw't i' th'
SCENE II.
  And yet love knows it is a greater grief
    Even to affright thee with the view thereof.
  Glou. By the kind gods, 'tis most ignobly done
    And his comrades, that daff'd the world aside
    As unrelenting flint to drops of rain.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    His currish riddle sorts not with this place.
    prove false one to another, since I have taken such pains to
  OTHELLO.                  Holla! Stand there!  
    A most inherent baseness.
                                        [Exeunt other Servants.]

    What bloody business ever.                             They rise.
    Comes from my love. But I do see you're moved;
    peradventure, not marked or not laugh'd at, strikes him into
    To dream on evil or to work my downfall.
  And each (though enemies to either's reign)
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  CRESSIDA. Juno have mercy! How came it cloven?
    For in this rapture I shall surely speak
    And beg thy pardon ere he do accuse thee.
  Corn. You know not why we came to visit you-
Music. Tables set out; servants attending. Enter divers LORDS,
  DUKE. Not a resemblance, but a certainty. Yet since I see you  
  AENEAS. Come, he is here, my lord; do not deny him.
    By living low where fortune cannot hurt me,
    nearer this ways. I myself dwell with Master Doctor
    This sword and these my wounds? Let th' Egyptians
    Hides not his visage from our cottage, but
  EXETER. Were our tears wanting to this funeral,
  MENENIUS. Very well.
  Fal. My lord, the man I know.

    And all the honours that can fly from us
    degree of my betters; and yet I will not compare with an old man.
  Hor. As thou art to thyself.
    Nor, showing, as the manner is, his wounds
                                                      Exit SNOUT
    Alas, I am the mother of these griefs!
    That waits upon your Grace?
  What, will you walk with me about the town,


    To those that know me. Come, love and health to all;
                                  Exeunt GLOUCESTER and servants
  FALSTAFF. Not I, I assure thee; setting the attraction of my
    makes a great show. Here comes Monsieur Le Beau.  
Verona. A churchyard; in it the monument of the Capulets.
    Who, raging with thy tears and they with them,
    been put together with so mortal a purpose as then each bore,
  1. Watch. Call up the right Master Constable. We have here

    the end. He keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw;
    And lose the name of action.- Soft you now!
    By being in his eye. Most gracious Duke,
    I think, is not for idle markets, sir.

    That droops his sapless branches to the ground.
  WARWICK. Madam, be still- with reverence may I say;
  TIMON. I will not kiss thee; then the rot returns
  For it depends upon that love of thine.  
    For yet may England curse my wretched reign.
  PATROCLUS. They pass by strangely. They were us'd to bend,
  ORLEANS. Ay, but these English are shrewdly out of beef.
    And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes
    On this side my hand, and on that side thine.
  PROVOST. Here, if it like your honour.
    buy and sell men and women like beasts, we shall have all the
    in love. Nay, by'r lady, I am not such a fool to think what I
  HUBERT. Lord Bigot, I am none.  
    These people at our back.
    Conjecture, expectation, and surmise
    Without some image of th' affected merit.
    May do much danger. Friar John, go hence,
    As who should say 'I am Sir Oracle,
    A thousand times more fair, ten thousand times more rich,
    Now stops thy spring; my sea shall suck them dry,
    mine own.
  Urs. I pray you be not angry with me, madam,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Would hang themselves. Physic for't there's none;
    To slay your sovereign and destroy the realm.  
    adieu.
    And when I told the Empress of this sport,
    Deliver'd by a friend that came from him.
  DEMETRIUS. Why, boy, although our mother, unadvis'd,
    Your friends at Pomfret, they do need the priest:
    Must help you more than you are hurt by me.
    One spirit to command; they all do hate him
    So will I never be; so may you miss me;
    Come, take-a your rapier, and come after my heel to the
    footboy or a gentleman's lackey.
    me.
    be punish'd by him. Show those things you found about her, those
    Arthur, that great forerunner of thy blood,

    To-morrow yield up rule, resign my life,

  KING RICHARD. Art thou, indeed?
    That took some pains in writing, he begg'd mine;
    What good condition can a treaty find
    losing thy service- Why dost thou stop my mouth?
    Infects one comma in the course I hold,
and Attendants.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Nor can one England brook a double reign
                                  Flourish. Exit KING with train
                        Exeunt all but Macbeth and an Attendant.
    Therefore still bear the balance and the sword;
    and all the rest are his sons.' 'Jupiter!' quoth she 'which of
  OLD MAN. God's benison go with you and with those
    tent; and to procure safe conduct for his person of the
    'pluck't out and give it him.' But there was such laughing! and
    My Lord Northumberland will soon be cool'd.
    Are pluck'd up root and all by Bolingbroke-
    Farther than seen, and one infect another
    Are to be fear'd. Have you a precedent
    To sport would be as tedious as to work;
  Claud. And when was he wont to wash his face?
  IAGO. Here, stand behind this bulk; straight will he come.
    Of favour from myself and all our house;

    To bring it into danger.  

    Answer no more, for thou shalt be my queen.
    Now in the rearward comes the Duke and his.
    organs. It lives by that which nourisheth it, and the elements
  PANDARUS. Have you seen my cousin?
                         Enter a MESSENGER  
    His hopes 'bove wisdom, grace, and fear.
  Jul. Wash they his wounds with tears? Mine shall be spent,
    Bows toward her and would under-peep her lids
  SILVIA. Amen, amen! Go on, good Eglamour,

    For that same word 'rebellion' did divide  
  O from what power hast thou this powerful might,
    The record of what injuries you did us,
    For I spake to you for your comfort, did desire you
    Why railest thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
    Why, foolish boy, the King is left behind,
    For I will kiss her.
    clean; nor believe he can have everything in him by wearing his

the DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER, MARGERY JOURDAIN, HUME, SOUTHWELL, and BOLINGBROKE
    Gorging and feeding from our soldiers' hands,
    Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
    the period of my ambition. O this blessed hour!
              And then take hands;
                                        then vanish with Hecate.
  And yet this time removed was summer's time,
    'Laertes shall be king! Laertes king!'
  BRUTUS. And topping all others in boasting.
    Impatient answers from my gentle tongue?
    Commander of this hot malicious day.
    And who durst smile when Warwick bent his brow?
  DUKE. I grant it for thine own, whate'er it be.

    When everything does make a gleeful boast?
    be a mock for his truth; and what truth can speak truest not
    Sea-water shalt thou drink; thy food shall be
    T' employ you towards this Roman. Come, our queen.  
    oui, de fingres.
    Protector?
  EVANS. Show me now, William, some declensions of your

    Whose top-branch overpeer'd Jove's spreading tree
  AENEAS. May one that is a herald and a prince
  BARDOLPH. Why, sir, for my part, I say the gentleman had
  TALBOT. I speak not to that railing Hecate,
    I have deliver'd to Lord Angelo,
    But who comes here? I am invisible;
  MALVOLIO. 'And some have greatness thrust upon them.'
    have committed to your worship, and to give me your good report
    Parson.
  MARCADE. God save you, madam!
    Bid them have patience; she shall come anon.
    And in his commendations I am fed;
    have a desire to hold my acquaintance with thee, or rather my
    Then pardon me for reprehending thee,
  Rom. I will follow you.

    [To Glend.] Within that space you may have drawn together
    The pride upon them, that their very labour
    King Lewis his satisfaction, all appear
    Of his own just remove; the people muddied,
    Pale, pale as ashes, all bedaub'd in blood,
  PANDARUS. Well, cousin, I told you a thing yesterday; think on't.
    A prize no less in worth. Keep this man safe,
  OBERON. This is thy negligence. Still thou mistak'st,
    To flatter up these powers of mine with rest,
                               with MENENIUS  
  BELARIUS. [Aside] O noble strain!
    Who, newly in the seat, that it may know
    Therefore the office is indifferent,
      our fate,  
Enter the DUKE OF EPHESUS, AEGEON, the Merchant
    They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
    Quite in the wrong. How do you now, lieutenant?
    Have we done aught amiss, show us wherein,
    That hast such noble sense of thy friend's wrong!
    Both in his words and meaning. He was never,
    I'll trust by leisure him that mocks me once;
    Let us complain to them what fools were here,
  SUFFOLK. And he of these that can do most of all
  ANGUS. We are sent
    Should have ascended to the roof of heaven,
  MACDUFF. If it be mine,
    And name thee in election for the empire
    So as thou liv'st in peace, die free from strife;  
  The most sweet favour or deformed'st creature,
  That thereby beauty's rose might never die,
    That, in th' official marks invested, you
  HUBERT. And I'll keep him so
    Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
by William Shakespeare
  Whilst I had been like heedful of the other.
  PRIAM, King of Troy
  MRS. FORD. Heaven make you better than your thoughts!

    hold your life at any price, betake you to your guard; for your
    A barren detested vale you see it is:

    Four hundred twenty-six; and Charles the Great
    To alter favor ever is to fear.
    Let them have cushions by you. You are plebeians,
  PUCK. The King doth keep his revels here to-night;
    I'll send them all as willing as I live:
  SECOND LORD. [Aside] No, faith; not so much as his patience.
  Rom. 'Tis the way
    Away, I say; commend me to thy master.           Exit TAILOR  
    not him. Though that be sick, it dies not.
    Nym.
    If by this crime he owes the law his life,
  CLEOPATRA. Sir, the gods  
    For God's sake, fairly let her be entreated.
    Whither I go, thither shall you go too;
    Farewell, and take her; but direct thy feet
     It does from childishness. Can Fulvia die?
  MENTEITH. The English power is near, led on by Malcolm,
    This vengeance on me had they executed.
    both in purse and in person.
  MACDUFF. And so do I.
    Now, Hector, I have fed mine eyes on thee;
    Haply been absent then.

    And stain'd the beauty of a fair queen's cheeks

  TROILUS. When many times the captive Grecian falls,
    I'll tell you news indifferent good for either.
    the brain awe a man from the career of his humour? No, the world
  Jul. Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband?
    Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
    So excellent in art, and still so rising,

    Some lively touches of my daughter's favour.
    infinite of thought.
  How like a winter hath my absence been
    But in our circumstance and course of thought,
    How shall we do for money for these wars?
    But more than these, in love I do deserve.
    that my nose fell a-bleeding on Black Monday last at six o'clock
                                               [Giving a letter]
    O, gentlemen, see, see! Dead Henry's wounds

                             Enter Hostess.
    With all the choicest music of the kingdom,
    Caius and Valentine, lay hands on them.
    Wafting his eyes to th' contrary and falling
  FRENCH SOLDIER. Sur mes genoux je vous donne mille remercimens; et
    What joy is joy, if Silvia be not by?
    That would have forc'd your honour and your love.
  HERMIONE. You gods, look down,
  AGUECHEEK. There's a testril of me too; if one knight give a-
    deliver'd.
    Our trivial difference loud, we do commit
  TRANIO. A vengeance on your crafty withered hide!
    As wild geese that the creeping fowler eye,
    Give me my sin again.                          [Kisses her.]
  But neither chain nor goldsmith came to me.
  OTHELLO. What dost thou say?
    Your sharpest deeds of malice on this town.
    What we are sorry for ourselves in thee.
    For this time all the rest depart away.
  PROSPERO. Follow me.
SCENE II.
    'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'  
  BERTRAM. But you must not now slumber in it.
    Sir Oliver Martext, you are well met. Will you dispatch us here
    And in the taste confounds the appetite.
    Before, behind thee, and on every hand,
  PAROLLES. Ay, sir.
    An if we live, we live to tread on kings;  
  ELBOW. Marry, sir, he hath offended the law; and, sir, we take him
friends of TIMON, at several doors
    And little blest with the soft phrase of peace;
    These are complements, these are humours; these betray nice  
  Mess. Save Yourself, my lord:
    Hold out this tempest. Bear away that child,
    With pity that doth make me sick! A lady
  THESEUS. Thanks, good Egeus; what's the news with thee?
    That, were our royal faiths martyrs in love,
    And be aveng'd on cursed Tamora.  

  DESDEMONA. Who, he? I think the sun where he was born
    Whose sudden sight hath thrall'd my wounded eye.
    The sons of Edward sleep in Abraham's bosom,
  But when in thee time's furrows I behold,
    And yet not so-for what can we bequeath

    That haunted us in our familiar paths.
    in, two bushels of chaff: you shall seek all day ere you find
    Where ne'er from France arriv'd more happy men.       Exeunt
  HOSTESS. O, the Lord preserve thy Grace! By my troth, welcome to
    Indeed his king) to be engag'd in Wales,
  Queen. O, speak to me no more!
SCENE:
    Myself condemned and myself excus'd.
    Like to the earth, swallow her own increase.
    painted cloth, where the glutton's dogs licked his sores; and
    as e'er I look'd on.  
    But, soft! what day is this?
    him.
    Was this inserted to make interest good?


    Is at the nuptial of his son a guest
    Ambitious love hath so in me offended
    As late I have been, I not know. Thy pulse
    comes the master and main exercise, the incorporate conclusion.
    And hardly understood.
    You would have given me your petition that
    I'll seem the fool I am not. Antony
Scene II.
  ALL. So are we all.

    If your ladyship would say 'Thanks, Pompey,' I had done.
    Longer than I have time to tell his years;
    In our own filth drop our clear judgments, make us
  WARWICK. Is not a dukedom, sir, a goodly gift?
    And follow thee my lord throughout the world.

    there is such a man as Orlando?
    When such ill dealing must be seen in thought.          Exit

  LUCIUS. I will, sir.                                     Exit.
  YORK. While we pursu'd the horsemen of the north,
    hours in a sleep, and then to return and swear the lies he forges.
    soul, i' faith, sir, by my troth he is, as ever broke bread; but
    Why lifts she up her arms in sequence thus?
    The noble Duke of Clarence to your hands.
  KING. The extreme parts of time extremely forms
    Have ever come too short of my desires,
    He's follow'd both with body and with mind;
    Cry, Troyans, cry. Practise your eyes with tears.
                         Enter Ghost.
    Witness that here Iago doth give up
    Achievement is command; ungain'd, beseech.
    Will but amount to five and twenty thousand,
    And brought desired help from Burgundy;
                     120
    Farewell! Othello's occupation's gone!
  Ham. I will.
  One whose hard heart is button'd up with steel;
  CLEOPATRA. There's gold for thee.
    To cool this heat, a charm to calm these fits,
    judgment. Farewell, bastard.
    Where 'tis predominant; and 'tis pow'rfull, think it,
    'tis grossly done; so it be fairly done, no matter.  
  If a crow help us in, sirrah, we'll pluck a crow together.
    The precious jewel of thy home return.
    This fellow had a Volscian to his mother;
    any man in Illyria.
    This favour will I do you for his sake;

    In mine own cell, till thou didst seek to violate
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I think it be, sir; I deny it not.
  Ver. There is more news.
  PATROCLUS. No more words, Thersites; peace!
  KING HENRY. That's not my fear; my meed hath got me fame:
    To yield the ghost, but still the envious flood
    where to have me, thou knave, thou!  
    When, like the bee, tolling from every flower
           And stay'd the odds by adding four.
    The meat it feeds on. That cuckold lives in bliss
    Such dreadful heralds to astonish us.
  KING. Praising what is lost
  BASSIANUS. Who have we here? Rome's royal Emperess,
    Hie to the Goths and raise an army there;
     people fell ashouting.  
  chin, by the salt rheum that ran between France and it.
  FIRST MURDERER. You may, sir; 'tis a point of wisdom. Fare
    I tender my commission; by whose virtue-
    Come, come, sir.
    Let there be letters writ to every shire
                     Enter a Messenger.
    The like is on her arm.
  CASSIO. Here comes another troop to seek for you.
  SEBASTIAN. A lady, sir, though it was said she much resembled me,
    'Tis three o'clock, and Romans, yet ere night
  OTHELLO. What needs this iteration, woman? I say thy husband.
  FIRST LORD. I have deliv'red it an hour since. There is something
  BRUTUS. Portia, what mean you? Wherefore rise you now?
    Who comes here?
    I shall be counsel'd.
  ISABELLA. Besides, he tells me that, if peradventure
    Have all forsook me, hath devour'd the rest,
  DUKE. The Turk with a most mighty preparation makes for Cyprus.
    And yet to times in hope, my verse shall stand
  2. Car. I think this be the most villanous house in all London road
  Shall love, in building, grow so ruinous?
     If on my credit you dare build so far  
    You call me misbeliever, cut-throat dog,
         When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
    From our free person she should be confin'd,
    to.
    Being so frustrate, tell him he mocks
    Saint Denis and Saint George, compound a boy, half French, half  
  Trojan and Greek Soldiers, and Attendants  
    I reck not though thou end my life to-day.                   Exit
    I would prolong awhile the traitor's life.  
           Rich men sin, and I eat root.       [Eats and drinks]
    When rioting in Alexandria; you
    Returns the good Andronicus to Rome,
    I know 'tis he. We are held as outlaws. Hence!
  SLENDER. I had a father, Mistress Anne; my uncle can tell
                    Exeunt all but HASTINGS, LOVEL, and RATCLIFF  
    I told you, I, he was a frantic fool,


    Some dishonour we had in the loss of that drum; but it is not to
  Osw. He's coming, madam; I hear him.
Killing, worth Castle
    That's seal'd in approbation? You, Lord Escalus,
    Our landmen will stand up.
    I will your very faithful feeder be,
    peat his pate four days. Bite, I pray you, it is good for your
    Only in strokes; but with thy grim looks and
    Ere you can take due orders for a priest;
    Did haunt you in the field.
    Then let him be denay'd the regentship.
    Being most unfit to live. I have made you mad;
  ORLANDO. I rest much bounden to you; fare you well.
    The Grecian Diomed, and our Antenor  
Enter Artemidorus, reading paper.
    You dote on her that cares not for your love.
    fashion, richly suited but unsuitable; just like the brooch and
    Two mighty eagles fell, and there they perch'd,  
    ancient gentlemen but gard'ners, ditchers, and grave-makers. They
    Was beastly dumb'd by him.
  CASSIO. No.
    And I Will stand the hazard of the die.
    Page and my cousin Slender, and this day we shall have
  ANTONY. Art thou there, Diomed? Draw thy sword and give me
    Makes me from wond'ring fall to weeping joys,  
    Of this sir-reverence love, wherein thou stick'st
    Now, by mine honour which is yet mine own,
  BASTARD. Once more to-day well met, distemper'd lords!
    Her that so wishes, and her humble love!
    this leek; because, look you, you do not love it, nor your
  Ham. To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may not
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    'Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:
  FLAVIUS. I beseech your honour, vouchsafe me a word; it does
  Reg. But are my brother's pow'rs set forth?
    Experience, manhood, honour, ne'er before
    Herself, the land, and many a Christian soul,
    The ruthless Queen gave him to dry his cheeks
    Begins his golden progress in the East.
    Art thou not second woman in the realm,
  Greg. That shows thee a weak slave; for the weakest goes to the
  POET. So 'tis; this comes off well and excellent.  
    This is All-Souls' day, fellow, is it not?
  Nurse. Peace, I have done. God mark thee to his grace!
    proverb so little kin to the purpose.
  ANTONY. If we compose well here, to Parthia.
    He will again be well. If much you note him,
    In life but double death,'now Gloucester's dead.
    Out of his lunacies.
    And let our hearts, as subtle masters do,
    The tiger now hath seiz'd the gentle hind;
  Mess. My lord, your brother John is ta'en in flight,
    plain holy thistle. You may think perchance that I think you are
  Shifts but his place, for still the world enjoys it;
    To kiss her burial. Should I go to church
    and ignorance, be thine in great revenue! Heaven bless thee from
    Have we mow'd down in tops of all their pride!
    Was to be trusted with them.  
    Of all the court and princes of my blood.
  SERVANT. He hath ribbons of all the colours i' th' rainbow; points,  
    That thou returnest no greeting to thy friends?
    Or else I will discover nought to thee.
SCENE III.
    'Thus, thus,' quoth Forrest 'girdling one another
    I must be answer'd. Dost thou hear, Camillo?
    What, is it a time to jest and dally now?
    For, good King Henry, thy decay I fear.        Exit, guarded
    I have sent Cloten's clotpoll down the stream,
    Expecting in return twenty for one?


  Glou. What, hath your Grace no better company?
    That I will deeply put the fashion on,
    Even so suspicious is this tragedy.
    And here an engine fit for my proceeding!
    For private stomaching.
  MACBETH. Not yet.
  Beat. I would not deny you; but, by this good day, I yield upon
    The master-cord on's heart!
    Of our design. He bears himself more proudlier,

  WINCHESTER. Rome shall remedy this.
    And princely care, foreseeing those fell mischiefs
    'em.
  Queen. This is mere madness;
    Good warrant of.
  EMILIA. O, fie upon them! Some such squire he was
    I knew it for my bond.                                Exeunt
  FIRST SERVANT. What an arm he has! He turn'd me about with his  
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    I would not wed her for a mine of gold.

  Though yet heaven knows it is but as a tomb
    Leap o'er the walls for refuge in the field.
    And prologue to the omen coming on,
    is one, and I am her fool. When men come to borrow of your
    all demands.
    breath.'
  BIONDELLO. Why, is it not news to hear of Petruchio's coming?  
    Assist.               Exeunt, bearing the body of CORIOLANUS  
  CLOWN. Are these, I pray you, wind instruments?
  SURVEYOR to the Duke of Buckingham
    Is but a little way above our heads,  
    Unto your Grace do I in chief address
              No longer exercise
    That had a heart to love, and in that heart
    You of your wife, and me of my consent,
             All the power this charm doth owe:
                        Enter a SERVANT  
  But, soft, I see the goldsmith. Get thee gone;
    Castle.
    Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar:
    My country's good with a respect more tender,
                                                     [Kneels]
  DULL. I myself reprehend his own person, for I am his Grace's
    His jewish heart. Therefore, I do beseech you,
                               [LA PUCELLE, &c., enter the town]
    duty rememb'red, I will not be your suitor. I say to you I do
  TRINCULO. Ay, but to lose our bottles in the pool!
    And in the pulpit, as becomes a friend,
    Look! Don Pedro is returned to seek you.
  Leon. What do you mean, my lord?
  THESEUS. Go, bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns.
    Do what they would, are sorry- you are honourable-
    For whereso'er thou art in this world's globe
  HELENA. My mother greets me kindly; is she well?
    So is he, being a man.
    If I be one.
    What, dost thou turn away, and hide thy face?
    To be by oath enjoin'd to this. Farewell!
                 His ORATION to his SOLDIERS

  CLOWN. Indeed, brother-in-law was the farthest off you could have
    Says it will come to th' full. Mark Antony
    And mighty states characterless are grated
  Friar. Ah, Juliet, I already know thy grief;
    I am your spaniel; and, Demetrius,
    Of those physicians that first wounded thee:
    brought, the gentleman willing, and the King hold his purpose,
    These cull'd and choice-drawn cavaliers to France?
    That is belov'd. How dost thou like this tune?
  KING. Now, at the latest minute of the hour,
    Into a pit of ink, that the wide sea
    thou fear to strike, and to make me certain it is done, thou art
  WILLIAMS. This will I also wear in my cap; if ever thou come to me
    about to abuse me.
  CARDINAL. And so, my Lord Protector, by this means
    And never suffers matter of the world
    Thy brat hath been cast out, like to itself,
  FIRST WATCH. Go we to him.

  QUINCE. Francis Flute, the bellows-mender.
    And your great love to me restrains you thus.
    Be full expir'd. Thanks, uncle Winchester,
    Thou seest that all the grace that she hath left
  COSTARD. I had rather pray a month with mutton and porridge.
    What shall you ask of me that I'll deny,
    thy wrath, and turn the dregs of it upon this varlet here; this,  
  BERTRAM. Stay; the King!  
    'Twould put me to my slipper; but I feel not
  FIRST LORD. Indeed, my lord,
                          Enter Poins.
    Be answer'd in his challenge. Ajax is ready.  
    And boding screech-owls make the consort full!
    In nothing art thou black save in thy deeds,
    And cut your trusters' throats. Bound servants, steal:
       Enter LA PUCELLE disguis'd, with four soldiers dressed

    Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide
  CHIRON. Ay, so the turn were served.
               Re-enter MISTRESS PAGE and ROBIN

    Might have found easy fines; but there to end
  BOLINGBROKE. You shall.
  MOWBRAY. Yea, but not change his spots. Take but my shame,
    These news are everywhere; every tongue speaks 'em,
    Th' effect doth operate another way.
     I come to cope.
    Oftener upon her knees than on her feet,
    one would speak to her and stand in hope of answer- thither with
    My purpose would prove well. It cannot be
  RIVERS. What, marry, may she?  
  HECTOR. Brother, she is not worth what she doth, cost
    Between the grace, the sanctities of heaven,
  TITUS. Marcus, my brother! 'Tis sad Titus calls.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  JAQUES. I am so; I do love it better than laughing.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Heaven grant us its peace, but not the King of
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    am therefore no courtier? I am courtier cap-a-pe, and one that
    I never tasted Timon in my life,  
Enter CORIOLANUS with NOBLES
    With these weak women's fears. A noble spirit,
    Heaven take my soul, and England keep my bones!
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
     Where nature doth with merit challenge. Goneril,
  APEMANTUS. Live, and love thy misery!
    Before milk-white, now purple with love's wound,
    This happy breed of men, this little world,
  MARGARET. Margaret my name, and daughter to a king,
    May these same instruments which you profane
    Of me for jests; but now I'll set my teeth,
  TIMON. Both too, and women's sons.
    That the great child of honour, Cardinal Wolsey,

    To be suspected- framed to make women false.

    Let not the hours of this ungodly day
ADRIANA. Say, is your tardy master now at hand?
    The foot above the head.
  SLENDER. Ay, forsooth; I have spoke with her, and we have
    is no fettering of authority. I'll beat him, by my life, if I can

  ISABELLA. There spake my brother; there my father's grave
    I would adventure for such merchandise.
    Nay, you may think my love was crafty love,
  ALL.                   We are very sorry for't.
    Since I nor wax nor honey can bring home,
  REIGNIER. 'Twas time, I trow, to wake and leave our beds,  
    Seeing too much sadness hath congeal'd your blood,  
            Do thou for him stand.
  NERISSA. Quick, quick, I pray thee, draw the curtain straight;
  Fal. By the Lord, I knew ye as well as he that made ye. Why, hear
  OTHELLO. Now he denies it faintly and laughs it out.
     That slaves your ordinance, that will not see
    To those whose dealings have deserv'd the place
    which aided to expose the child were even then lost when it was
    That her old gloves were on, but 'twas her hands;
    Which shines here in the west.

          Amazon, and all dance, men witb women, a lofty
    Faith, he's very ill.
  TITUS. It was my dear, and he that wounded her
    [Exit SHALLOW]  Bardolph, look to our horses.  [Exeunt BARDOLPH

    Till he have brought thee up to yonder troops
  SOMERSET. Let him that is no coward nor no flatterer,
ACT IV. SCENE I.
  RODERIGO. Here is her father's house; I'll call aloud.  
    So bad an instrument; his name's Parolles.

  CALIBAN. Yea, yea, my lord; I'll yield him thee asleep,
  BOYET. Why, all his behaviours did make their retire  
  FIRST MURDERER. Ay, millstones; as he lesson'd us to weep.
  CELIA. By my troth, thou sayest true; for since the little wit that
    I would it would make you invisible.
  Laur. Now, must I to the monument alone.
  Lear. No, I say.
    No other speaker of my living actions,
    'Sicilia is a so-forth.' 'Tis far gone
    Thou cut'st my head off with a golden axe
    Upon a heap a hundred ghastly women
  PANDARUS. But hear you, hear you!
    us.  
    Take leave of thy old master, and inquire
    Your fresh fair virgins and your flow'ring infants.
    Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
    Sir Robert never holp to make this leg.
  LORD. He did, and with an absolute "Sir, not I,"
    From rascals worse than they.
  Ham. Come, come, and sit you down. You shall not budge I
     Gloucester.
  BRUTUS. Come hither, good Volumnius, list a word.  
    To base declension and loath'd bigamy.
  LUCENTIO. Love wrought these miracles. Bianca's love
    Yields his engrossments to the ending father.
    his business.
    way than drowning. Make all the money thou canst. If sanctimony
    This music mads me. Let it sound no more;
  VALENTINE. Give him leave, madam; he is a kind of chameleon.
  Though now this grained face of mine be hid
    Which falls into mine ears as profitless
             For the rain it raineth every day.
    which nature shows above her breeding; and many other evidences-
    But must condemn it now. Desist, and drink.  
    That there he dropp'd it for a special purpose
    To seal love's bonds new made than they are wont
    And laid the love-juice on some true-love's sight.
    Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
    I never saw a vessel of like sorrow,
  Ben. Have you importun'd him by any means?
  PROVOST. So please you, this friar hath been with him, and advis'd
    And we will all subscribe to thy advice.
Enter THERSITES. Excursions
  PORTIA. Yes, yes, it was Bassanio; as I think, so was he call'd.
    And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
    Before and in Corioli, let me say
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
              An alarum. Enter TALBOT in an excursion
    Of both your armies, whose equality
    Whose wisdom hath her fortune conquered;
                Thorough bush, thorough brier,
    Stands here for God, his sovereign, and himself,
    Cannot attain it, why then-hark you hither.
  LUCENTIO. Sir, give him head; I know he'll prove a jade.  

    Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
    Shall bear the business in some other fight,
  PETRUCHIO. A good swift simile, but something currish.
  GLOUCESTER. See how the surly Warwick mans the wall.
    Lies fest'ring in his shroud; where, as they say,
    Being in night, all this is but a dream,
  DIOMEDES. His death's upon him, but not dead.
    Let me a little show it, even in this;

    The Dauphin rages at our very heels.
  HIPPOLYTA. But all the story of the night told over,
    To make me hunger more, that I should forge

  FOURTH SOLDIER. Under the earth.
    Save thou my rose, in it thou art my all.
  GREMIO. I say a devil. Think'st thou, Hortensio, though her father
    That for the beauty thinks it excellent.  
    Unto the frowning judge, or who pronounc'd
  The seas wax'd calm, and we discovered
    Hath now himself met with the fall of leaf;
    Be this sweet Helen's knell. And now forget her.
    Read on.
    The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;  
    Slubber not business for my sake, Bassanio,
    In angel whiteness beat away those blushes,
  RODERIGO. I'll be with thee betimes.
    For whilst I think I am thy married wife
    I sheathe again undeeded. There thou shouldst be;
    Her father hath commanded her to slip
  PROSPERO.  [To FERDINAND]  Come, follow.  [To MIRANDA]
    Open the gates, or I'll shut thee out shortly.  
    As sure I think did never man love so,
  Do use you for my fool and chat with you,
  CAESAR. Taurus!

    here is good broken music.
    slaves,
    taxation of homage: I hold the olive in my hand; my words are as
  CHARMIAN. Amen.
  IMOGEN. What do you pity, sir?  
    Pray you go fit you to the custom, and
    And never see day that the happy sees

  POET. Nay, sir, but hear me on.
  QUICKLY. YOU do ill to teach the child such words. He
    be merry.
    And dare not take up arms like gentlemen.
    The utter loss of all the realm of France.
  BLUNT. Upon my life, my lord, I'll undertake it;
  DUCHESS. Why should calamity be fun of words?
  ISABELLA. She'll take the enterprise upon her, father,
  ELBOW. My Wife, sir, whom I detest before heaven and your honour-
    I have seen thee stern, and thou hast oft beheld
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS

  But yet be blamed, if thou thy self deceivest
    That clogs me with this answer."
  SECOND SENATOR. You breathe in vain.
  SHALLOW. Jesu, Jesu, dead! drew a good bow; and dead! 'A shot a
    For that's the golden mark I seek to hit.
    Then reason safely with you. Therefore be it known,
  I hope you do not mean to cheat me so.
  But mutual render, only me for thee.
    Of parents good, of fist most valiant.
          Here a dance Of SHEPHERDS and SHEPHERDESSES  
    travel of regard, telling them I know my place as I would they
    Here in these confines slily have I lurk'd
  KATHERINA. Asses are made to bear, and so are you.
  EDWARD. I wonder how our princely father scap'd,
    From the spongy south to this part of the west,

    Is of so flood-gate and o'erbearing nature
  Prince. Thy state is taken for a join'd-stool, thy golden sceptre
    will neither be fac'd nor brav'd. I say unto thee, I bid thy
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  ANGELO. We must not make a scarecrow of the law,

    into more work. But indeed, sir, we make holiday to see Caesar
  CLEOPATRA. I am sick and sullen.
    eat, and none to fight. Now is it time to arm. Come, shall we
    By praising him here who doth hence remain.
    now- a bawd, a cutpurse.
  Lords, Warders of the Tower, Heralds, Officers, Soldiers,
  PROTEUS. But how cam'st thou by this ring?
    sir?
    As presence did present them: him in eye
  ROSALIND. Were it not better,  
    The troops are all scattered, and the commanders very poor
    But still remember what the Lord hath done.
    Unless this general evil they maintain,
  Sir Walter Blunt.
    And part in just proportion our small power.
  SPEED. This proves me still a sheep.
    With purpose to be dress'd in an opinion
  IAGO. What an eye she has! Methinks it sounds a parley to
    Strumpet, thy words condemn thy brat and thee.
    In Florence was it from a casement thrown me,
    I know not, gentlemen, what you intend,
    We have convenient convoy. You must know
  POSTHUMUS. [Waking] Sleep, thou has been a grandsire and begot
    Look how thy wounds do bleed at many vents.


            Enter HOST, SHALLOW, SLENDER, and PAGE

                         Enter a PEDANT
  THESEUS. Take time to pause; and by the next new moon-
     shall find means, and acquaint you withal.
    A prosperous south-wind friendly, we have cross'd,
  GHOST.  [To RICHARD]  Bloody and guilty, guiltily awake,
    first with the best of note. Cymbeline lov'd me;
    And then do execution on the watch. Alarum.           Exeunt
    Depriv'd thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
SCENE III.
    Till thou art here aloft, or I below.
    not, tarry at home and be hang'd!
    But comforts we despise; our size of sorrow,
    Boys, we'll go dress our hunt. Fair youth, come in.
    Which, mellow'd by the stealing hours of time,
  QUEEN KATHARINE.  [Aside]  To betray me.-
    On Holy-rood Day the gallant Hotspur there,
     Which, like an engine, wrench'd my frame of nature
    For you my staff of office did I break
  THERSITES. Why, thou full dish of fool, from Troy.
    That cannot be; you are a councillor,
    How you may hurt yourself, ay, utterly
    Full fourteen weeks before the course of time.
    my saying pretty?  
    him today, I can tell them that. And there's Troilus will not
    Is full of weeds; her fairest flowers chok'd up,
  SUFFOLK. Yes, my lord, her father is a king,
  PUCK.       Fairy King, attend and mark;
    As well I tender you and all of yours!
  CRESSIDA. Did not I tell you? Would he were knock'd i' th' head!

    For when I am reveng'd upon my charm,
  HOSTESS. Cheater, call you him? I will bar no honest man my house,
    Of other lords and barons, knights and squires,
    On this young man; for learning and behaviour
    I girt thee with the valiant sword of York.  

     lake of darkness. Pray, innocent, and beware the foul fiend.
  SECOND LORD. Is it possible he should know what he is, and be that
    the waywarder. Make the doors upon a woman's wit, and it will out
  PROSPERO. This blue-ey'd hag was hither brought with child,
  DUKE. Then you must undertake to slander him.
  POLIXENES. Wherefore, gentle maiden,
    He gave the stablishment of Egypt; made her
    Grave Tribunes, once more I entreat of you.
  PRINCE JOHN. Now, have you left pursuit?
    captain! God's light, these villains will make the word as odious
  Bene. Even to the next willow, about your own business, County. What
EPILOGUE
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
         Here GLOUCESTER'S men beat out the CARDINAL'S
     Let sorrow split my heart if ever I
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  CHARLES. They say he is already in the Forest of Arden, and a many
    I turn you not away; but, like a master
    Does purpose honour to you no less flowing
  SIR TOBY. He shall think, by the letters that thou wilt drop, that
  KING. Doth any name particular belong
    Give me some help here, ho! If thou proceed
  Cupid laid by his brand and fell asleep,
  SICINIUS. Why, so he did, I am sure.
  No love, my love, that thou mayst true love call,
    the lark to the lodging of the lamb, vary deserved praise on my
        all Europe.'
    As broad Achilles; keeps his tent like him;
  Lear. [rises] Never, Regan!
    Apparent to my heart.
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. All the land knows that;
  BEROWNE. Their eyes, villain, their eyes.  
           Present mirth hath present laughter;
  Tyb. Follow me close, for I will speak to them.
    away.
A plain near Mortimer's Cross in Herefordshire
    But this, which they produce from Pharamond:
         Take what wife you will to bed,  
    Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those


    Away, and glister like the god of war
     To speak and purpose not, since what I well intend,
    Chamber matter of it; if he were twenty Sir John Falstaffs,
             That any man turn ass,

  Bene. Is there any way to show such friendship?
    I cleft his beaver with a downright blow.
  NORFOLK. He's discontented.
    'Tis not so dear, yet 'tis a life; you coin'd it.
    Which fault lies on the hazards of all husbands
    I rather tell thee what is to be fear'd
    I speak it in my spirit and honour, 'No.'
  DESDEMONA. I have not deserved this.
    What great creation and what dole of honour  
    Ha!
  TITANIA. Out of this wood do not desire to go;
                                         [They hang their heads]

    Unless the Lady Bona quit his pain.
    Should rob my bed-mate of my company.
    For then thou canst not pass to Mantua,
    And so I do commend you to their backs.
  Hor. It is a nipping and an eager air.
  EVANS. It is marring indeed, if he quarter it.
    Detest my baseness. I, that with my sword
    But set his murd'ring knife unto the root

    The slavish motive of recanting fear,

  IAGO. Hold, ho! Lieutenant- sir- Montano- gentlemen-
                  manner; and PHRYNIA and TIMANDRA
     the great image of authority: a dog's obeyed in office.
    Thou art inclin'd to sleep; 'tis a good dullness,  
    In the fair multitude of those her hairs!
    amen! Give me a cup of sack, boy. Ere I lead this life long, I'll
    Seeking sweet favours for this hateful fool,
  HOLOFERNES. I do dine to-day at the father's of a certain pupil of
  DUKE.                     Fetch Desdemona hither.
    Teaches such beauty as a woman's eye?
    Had been the very sum of my confession.
    This only is the witchcraft I have used.
    And make the wars alike against my stomach,
    Into the harsh and boist'rous tongue of war;
                     124
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. See, see, my beauty will be sav'd by merit.
    Were by the swords of common soldiers slain.

    breeding.
    That they may crush down with a heavy fall

    We must return to th' court of guard. The night
    Shows Julia but a swarthy Ethiope.
    Then curs'd she Hastings. O, remember, God,
    That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
    Cried 'Via! we will do't, come what will come.'
    Where several worthies make one dignity,
  Ham. That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights

  EROS. Why, there then! Thus do I escape the sorrow  


  NORTHUMBERLAND. For this I shall have time enough to mourn.
    You see this chase is hotly followed, friends.
    This rudeness is a sauce to his good wit,
    your brace of unprizable estimations, the one is but frail and
SCENE 4.
    Thy brother by decree is banished.  
    In this the heaven figures some event.
  ULYSSES. Yet is the kindness but particular;
    Even as our days do grow!
    O, where is faith? O, where is loyalty?
    But it confounds the breather. He should have liv'd,
    the people.
    Which makes my whit'st part black. The will of heav'n
    Of my lord's tricks and yours when you were boys.
  Lear. Attend the lords of France and Burgundy, Gloucester.
    Made to run even upon even ground,
    There is a vent of blood, and something blown;
    I am the last that will last keep his oath.
    If they should speak, would almost damn those ears
    Steep'd in the faultless blood of pretty Rutland-
    You ne'er kill'd Imogen till now. Help, help!
                        Enter KING RICHARD
SCENE VI.
    would wish you' or 'I would request you' or 'I would entreat you
  WARWICK. Unsavoury news! But how made he escape?
    for her two eyes. Well, I do nothing in the world but lie, and
    As he takes from you, I engraft you new.
    Here, Marcus, fold it in the oration;
    The gutter'd rocks, and congregated sands,
    Blow, villain, till thy sphered bias cheek

Enter KATHERINA and BIANCA
    To be o'erpow'r'd; and wilt thou, pupil-like,
    hanged in compassing thy joy than to be drowned and go without
    SATURNINUS.  [Reads]  'An if we miss to meet him handsomely,
    Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?

    O, had thy grandsire with a prophet's eye

  POET. I have not seen you long; how goes the world?
    For worse than Philomel you us'd my daughter,
    If e'er thou look'dst on majesty.
    most rare note. The report of her is extended more than can be
    Kind souls, what weep you when you but behold
    Crown'd by the name of Henry the Fourth,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Let him that thinks of me so abjectly
  PLANTAGENET. Meantime your cheeks do counterfeit our

    What woman's that?
  BOLINGBROKE. Intended or committed was this fault?
  BOYET. Under the cool shade of a sycamore  
    I laugh'd him into patience; and next morn,
  MENENIUS. He's a bear indeed, that lives fike a lamb. You two are
    And, being men, hearing the will of Caesar,
    not done a great while, because the rest of thy low countries
    To hide us from pursuit that will be made
    Against our substitute! Let this friar be found.
  EMILIA. And your reports have set the murther on.
    Noses, ears, and lips. Is't possible? Confess? Handkerchief? O

    Give then such instances of loss?
  Jul. Here's such a coil! Come, what says Romeo?
  OTHELLO. O villain!
    "Help, ho! They murther Caesar!" Who's within?
  CLEOPATRA. What shall we do, Enobarbus?
  BRUTUS. Why, so I do. Good Portia, go to bed.
    And to survey his dead and earthy image,

    Like exhibition thou shalt have from me.
            Enter TIMON and his train, with ALCIBIADES
    So fought, so followed, and so fairly won,
     That ever I have felt.
  PUCK. Believe me, king of shadows, I mistook.
                                                         Exeunt.
    Though banish'd, yet a trueborn English man.          Exeunt
    So please you entertain me.
    And to our dear friend Banquo, whom we miss.
    As thou hast lent me wit to plot this drift.            Exit
    I am so sorry for my trespass made
  SILIUS, an Officer in Ventidius's army
    her sometimes, and tell her that Paris is the properer man; but
    By a divine instinct men's minds mistrust  

    Will purchase us a good opinion,
    can bid the other four farewell, I should be glad of his
       without flowers.
    Of this commission? I believe, not any.
  Hot. My liege, I did deny no prisoners.

    Th' immortal gods that hear you. Spare your oaths;
  CASSIUS. He wish'd today our enterprise might thrive.
    Yet doth this accident and flood of fortune
    As yours was put into you, ever casts  
    And when came George from Burgundy to England?
    Meet me to-morrow in Saint George's field,
    They would restrain the one, distain the other.
    did last time.
    there a wise woman with thee?
  SIMPCOX. No, indeed, master.
    That to her brother which I said to thee:

     And thy dear judgment out! Go, go, my people.
    Whose honour Heaven shield from soil!-even he escapes not
    Sir?
    the Princess kill'd a pricket.
    Hath given me some worthy cause to wish
    or the breaking of my Spanish sword.
  BOY. Ay, when my father was in Rome she did.
    Might I but through my prison once a day
    Who gave thee this letter?
    With what it loathes, for that which is away.
    And I'll not wish thee to her.
Bosworth Field
    Engag'd my friend to his mere enemy,
    Makes many Thetis' sons.                                 [Tucket]
  OLIVIA. Ha?
    substance into that fat belly of his. But I will have some of it
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  SOMERSET. What are they that fly there?
    Good angels guard thee from the boar's annoy!
    God save you, Signior Gremio!
    of a baser birth than tar- the very uncleanly flux of a cat. Mend
  Dost thou conjure for wenches, that thou call'st for such store,
    As mine, against their will. Should all despair
    And being but a toy, which is no grief to give.
    More than they were in note. Amongst the rest
  AGUECHEEK. Nay, by my troth, I know not; but I know to be up late
  FALSTAFF. Old, old, Master Shallow.
    goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
    If thou delight to view thy heinous deeds,
    forth the watch that are their accusers.
    like not when a oman has a great peard; I spy a great peard
    Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell.
    Of Tybalt deaf to peace, but that he tilts
  Glou. So may it be indeed.
    It would infect his speech-that if the King
    The drug he gave me, which he said was precious
    If you suppose as fearing you it shook.
    vice of lying! This same starv'd justice hath done nothing but
    Your loneliness.- We are oft to blame in this,

    Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements,
  Beat. Indeed, my lord, he lent it me awhile, and I gave him use for

  Nurse. (within) Madam!
    Have I affected wealth or honour? Speak.

  GRATIANO. Signior Bassanio!

Enter Paris and his Page with flowers and [a torch].
    My virtue or my plague, be it either which,-
    But he does buy my injuries, to be friends;
    Against the Capitol I met a lion,
    And other of such vinegar aspect
    Some 'Juliet,' and some 'Paris'; and all run,
      Our wills and fates do so contrary run
  OBERON. I wonder if Titania be awak'd;
    foes tell me plainly I am an ass; so that by my foes, sir, I
  LADY GREY. Why, then I will do what your Grace commands.  
  YORK. Call Buckingham, and all the friends thou hast,
    That you run mad, seeing that she is well.
  PISANIO. Sir, as I think.
  KATHERINA.  [To BAPTISTA]  I pray you, sir, is it your will
    For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
  IAGO. O sweet England!
  VIRGILIA. O, good madam, there can be none yet.
    Good Captain Blunt, bear my good night to him,
    Left I the court, to see this quarrel tried.
    Beat mine, inhoop'd, at odds. I will to Egypt;
    Of 'came, and saw, and overcame.' With shame-
    And I will be revenged on them all.
    And I am I, howe'er I was begot.

    His loving bosom, to keep down his heart.

    There stay until the twelve celestial signs
    Thou shouldst not bear from me a Greekish member
    Defy us to our worst; for, as I am a soldier,
  GOWER. Why, this is an arrant counterfeit rascal; I remember him
  MALVOLIO. Having been three months married to her, sitting in my
    I shot his fellow of the self-same flight
    sweet niece Cressida.
    With sweet musk-roses, and with eglantine;
    Daylight and champain discovers not more. This is open. I will be

    And am I guerdon'd at the last with shame?
    But I bespake you fair and hurt you not.
  PAROLLES. Recantation! My Lord! my master!
  MRS. PAGE. Alas, what noise?
  KING EDWARD. Then get your husband's lands, to do them good.
    Melting the darkness, so their rising senses
    deeds, and hot deeds is love.
  SHEPHERD. Let him, my son; he shall not need to grieve  

    And bring us Cressid hither. Calchas shall have
    For such a one we show'd 'em. If they smile
  '"Lo, this device was sent me from a nun,
    And all my study be to no effect?
  MESSALA. Cicero is dead,
    The beauty of his daughter; he himself
    Behold how like a maid she blushes here!
        thou usest him- JACK FALSTAFF with my familiars,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    The rashness of a woman! He is touch'd
    Is stopped, the very source of it is stopp'd.
    Good God! why should they mock poor fellows thus?
    So be there 'twixt your kingdoms such a spousal
AEGEON. Why look you strange on me? You know me well.
  CAESAR. Speak, Agrippa.
    A certain stuff, which, being ta'en would cease
    with you.
    To have me fold up Parca's fatal web?
    In a neat's tongue dried, and a maid not vendible.
    A dozen years; within which space she died,
    And wash this filthy witness from your hand.
    Therefore in fierce tempest is he coming,
    Why thou art thus incens'd. Let him go, Gertrude.
    A most intelligencing bawd!

A street in Westminster
                                   Exeunt some of the SERVINGMEN
    certain of my creditors; and yet, to say the truth, I had as lief
    I never did incense his Majesty
    Your gracious self to take on you the charge
  PISTOL. Base tike, call'st thou me host?
    'Twill weep for having wearied you. My father

    Clarence and Edward. O, what cause have I-
    That we may do it still without accompt.
    Into the bowels of ungrateful Rome,
    In whom the tempers and the minds of all
    Make blind itself with foolish tenderness.

  LONGAVILLE. To fright them hence with that dread penalty.
  CELIA. Well, the beginning, that is dead and buried.
  POSTHUMUS. I tell thee, fellow, there are none want eyes to direct
  TALBOT. Saint George and victory! Fight, soldiers, fight.
    Myself in counsel, his competitor.
  HELENA. Ay, do- persever, counterfeit sad looks,
    And this the regal seat. Possess it, York;
    In you, which I account his, beyond all talents.
    earnest?
    Whilst all tongues cried 'God save thee, Bolingbroke!'
  GENTLEWOMAN. Madam, the Lady Valeria is come to visit you.

    Your reconciler! Wars 'twixt you twain would be
    He little thought of this divided friendship.
    And madly play with my forefathers' joints,
    As one, in suff'ring all, that suffers nothing;
  SILVIA. O, he sends you for a picture?
  ORLANDO. Who ambles Time withal?
  A league from Epidamnum had we sail'd

    Looks handsome in three hundred pounds a year!
  MRS. FORD. Do not betray me, sir; I fear you love Mistress
    Proclaim him in the streets, incense her kinsmen,
    A pair so famous. High events as these
  KING EDWARD. Sweet widow, by my state I swear to thee
    It is as fat and fulsome to mine ear
    Had not an ear to hear my true time broke.
    sanctuary.  
    curtsy and say nothing, he is virtuous. No, my lord, my humble
    Heaven let me bear it! You granting of my suit,
  OTHELLO. Hum!
    I must away this night toward Padua,
    burst, how I lost my crupper- with many things of worthy memory,
    My voice shall sound as you do prompt mine ear;
    From the great compt; but love that comes too late,
    In the brave squares of war. Yet now- no matter.
    To hear the men deny't. So that, I say,
    He is no less than what we say he is.
  DUCHESS. Strike him, Aumerle. Poor boy, thou art amaz'd.
    Trust none;
  Lear. How now, my pretty knave? How dost thou?
    Yet let 'em look they glory not in mischief
  CAITHNESS, nobleman of Scotland
  CELIA. So you may put a man in your belly.
  MRS. FORD. What's the matter, good Mistress Page?
    I would be blind with weeping, sick with groans,
    For yesternight by Catesby was it sent me;
  PAULINA. And left them
    And thither bear your treasure and your goods.
    To choose you a queen. She shall not be so young
                          Enter Worcester.
  MOTH. No, my complete master; but to jig off a tune at the tongue's

  DESDEMONA. [Sings.]
    And this same needy man must sell it me.
    And what he will, I humbly yield unto.                Exeunt
  AUMERLE. Excepting one, I would he were the best
    In my just censure, in my true opinion!
    I think thou hast the veriest shrew of all.
     That sets us all at odds. I'll not endure it.
    Or any groat I hoarded to my use,
    Consuming means, soon preys upon itself.
  OBERON.    Through the house give glimmering light,
    my suit and repent my unlawful solicitation; if not, assure
    for thy preferment.
    washing her hands. I have known her continue in this a quarter of
    to cast them away for nothing, though between them and a great
    honesty dwells like a miser, sir, in a poor house; as your pearl

    Takes it in might, not merit.
  BANQUO. Ay, my good lord. Our time does call upon 's.
  Boy. Signior?
  But in the onset come, so shall I taste
    but that I am afeard.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS

    And not o' th' court of Britain.
    And God forbid, my dear and faithful lord,
    Thou never comest unto a happy birth,

  TROILUS. Come, both, you cogging Greeks; have at you
    And mannerly distinguishment leave out

    That leads toward Mantua, whither they are fled.
    I'll not endure it. Would I were satisfied!
    clog at his heels. If I thought it were a piece of honesty to
  QUINCE. No, no, you must play Pyramus; and, Flute, you Thisby.
                                 Exeunt TROILUS and DIOMEDES fighting
    Peopled with wolves, thy old inhabitants!
  Fal. Tut, never fear me. I am as vigilant as a cat to steal cream.
    That heaven had made her such a man; she thank'd me,
    Go pack with him, and give the mother gold,
     We'll teach you-
    And vows revenge as spacious as between
    Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
    Than such a murther is.
    Whence are you? Here's no place for you: pray go to the door.  
    And shall good news be baffled?

    Of you, and you, Lord Rivers, and of Dorset,
    The bark is ready and the wind at help,
    Is sad to think upon his merchandise.
  BUCKINGHAM. The Mayor is here at hand. Intend some fear;
    And frown upon 's.
A council chamber. The Duke and Senators sitting at a table;
    war, here on his sinister cheek; it was this very sword
    The circumstance I'll tell you more at large.
    To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil
     opportunities to cut him off. If your will want not, time and
    And with wild looks bid me devise some mean
    In forwarding this dear expedience.
    Undo that prayer by crying out as loud
  Weeds among weeds, or flowers with flowers gathered.
  LUCY. Thus, while the vulture of sedition
    And hath been from his youth. Pray you, keep seat.
    Excels whatever yet you look'd upon
Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING OF FRANCE, with letters,

    Where man doth not inhabit-you 'mongst men
     Is general woe. [To Kent and Edgar] Friends of my soul, you
    That in this desert inaccessible,
  LAUNCELOT. Marry, you may partly hope that your father got you not-
                       Enter DIOMEDES
    That all the miseries which nature owes
    thy sword, and then chop him in the malmsey-butt in the
        Enter CHARLES, the BASTARD, ALENCON, LA PUCELLE,
    Shut up in Prison, kept without my food,
  Let those who are in favour with their stars,
    At each his needless heavings- such as you
  FALSTAFF. I know not. Here he is, and here I yield him; and I
  ISABELLA. Ay, as the glasses where they view themselves,
    With slow but stately pace kept on his course,
    When, spite of cormorant devouring Time,
    I draw a sword against conspirators;
    poor-John. Draw thy tool! Here comes two of the house of
  MARGARET. Hear ye, Captain-are you not at leisure?
    What! I that kill'd her husband and his father-
  Fool. [sings]
     May be my friends. He's dead. I am only sorry

  KATHARINE. Bleat softly, then; the butcher hears you cry.


  IAGO. I do not know. Friends all but now, even now,
    thousand years, I could stay no longer. Wherefore, on a brick
    And as the wretch whose fever-weak'ned joints,
    pocket and extracting it clutch'd? What reply, ha? What say'st
  I have not breath'd almost since I did see it.
    Till death, that winter, kill it.
    to himself again, he said, if he had done or said anything amiss,
  YORK. For Suffolk's duke, may he be suffocate,
    Once did I lay an ambush for your life,
  LUCIO. Why, what a ruthless thing is this in him, for the rebellion
    A napkin steeped in the harmless blood
    Upon this French going out, took he upon him-
    Where false Plantagenet dare not be seen.
    Though time seem so adverse and means unfit.
    For I am ignorant and cannot guess.
    Pretend some alteration in good-will?
    with pillage and robbery. Now, if these men have defeated the law
  COUNTESS OF ROUSILLON, mother to Bertram
    O, keep me from their worse than killing lust,
    your Grace, has struck the glove which your Majesty is take out
    I would they would forget me, like the virtues
  DIOMEDES. Lock'd in her monument. She had a prophesying fear
  THOMAS BEAUFORT, DUKE OF EXETER, great-uncle to the king
  THREE GENTLEMEN
    church.
    And keep no tell-tale to his memory
                 To your eye,
  MIRANDA. I should sin
    Find out thy brother wheresoe'er he is;
    take soldiers up in counties as you go.
    Our Queen and all her elves come here anon.
    therefore comes to speak with you. What is to be said to him,
    Would be your country's pleader, your good tongue,
    Cheshu, I think 'a will plow up all, if there is not better
    My best attires. I am again for Cydnus,
    Iron may hold with her, but never lutes.
  He ask'd me for a thousand marks in gold.
    Shall find him by his large and portly size.
    'Twere pregnant they should square between themselves;
  Edg. A servingman, proud in heart and mind; that curl'd my hair,
    Were in your love a whip to me; my stay
    Come, come, my lords;
    And stop all sight-holes, every loop from whence
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. God give thee joy of him! The noble lord
  LORD CHAMBERLAIN              LORD CHANCELLOR
  PROSPERO. Sir, I invite your Highness and your train
                                                         [Rises]
    From whom he bringeth sensible regreets;
    Dardan, and Tymbria, Helias, Chetas, Troien,
    Where have you been these two days loitering?
  recover the lost hair of another man.
    Therefore, to arms! be champion of our church,
    Thus did I keep my person fresh and new,
    pack-saddle. Yet you must be saying Marcius is proud; who, in a
  KING. What piles of wealth hath he accumulated

  ANNE. I may not go in without your worship; they will not
    Is all your strict preciseness come to this?

    you serv'd me when I took my leave of Madam Silvia. Did not I bid
    Hear but my name, and tremble.  
  DESDEMONA.      Nor I. I would not there reside
    Thou showest the naked pathway to thy life,
  Claud. Now unto thy bones good night!
    To loathe the taste of sweetness, whereof a little

  PRINCE. I fear no uncles dead.
    Or gluttoning on all, or all away.
Another part of the field
    Where bloody Tybalt, yet but green in earth,


    About a schoolmaster for the fair Bianca;

  VIOLA. Then westward-ho!
  EARL OF SALISBURY
    Smiles at her news, while Warwick frowns at his.


  CORIN. Sir, I am a true labourer: I earn that I eat, get that I
  SOMERSET. It shall be so; he shall to Brittany.
  EGLAMOUR, agent for Silvia in her escape
    The names of those their nobles that lie dead:
  PANTHINO. To-morrow, may it please you, Don Alphonso
Enter PRINCE HENRY and POINS

  
    That life, a very rebel to my will,
    Was not our recompense, resting well assur'd

    How much I had to do to calm his rage I
    To lose so bad employment, in the which  
  Pol. Well be with you, gentlemen!
  CLOTEN. I am not vex'd more at anything in th' earth. A pox on't! I
  TALBOT. Hear, hear how dying Salisbury doth groan.
    in Datchet Mead, and there empty it in the muddy ditch
                                                          Exeunt
  ESCALUS. Look you, bring me in the names of some six or seven, the
  Prince. For worms, brave Percy. Fare thee well, great heart!
    Fool, of thyself speak well. Fool, do not flatter.
  BEROWNE. Well followed: Judas was hanged on an elder.
  Fool. Not i' th' stocks, fool.
    Of many thousand kisses the poor last
  IAGO. [Aside.] He takes her by the palm; ay, well said, whisper.  
    The trumpet sounds retreat; the day is ours.
  LADY GREY, afterwards QUEEN to Edward IV
  ORLANDO. Who doth he gallop withal?
    As I did him, and speak of something wildly
    speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month.
    But, in the verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
  LADY GREY. My love till death, my humble thanks, my prayers;
  In faith I do not love thee with mine eyes,  
  SECOND SERVANT. Are you so brave? I'll have you talk'd with anon.
    wax, my growth would approve the truth.
  TITUS. Sirrah, come hither. Make no more ado,
    So Antony loves.
    prostrate and grovel on the earth; John Southwell, read you; and
    Which was, that he, in lieu o' th' premises,
    Who's there?
  FIRST BEADLE. Come, come, you she knight-errant, come.
  BEROWNE. Why, he comes in like a perjure, wearing papers.
  BURGUNDY. Courageous Bedford, let us now persuade you.

    his brains.

    And we in them no hope to win the day;
    praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving woman indeed, one that
    There is a written scroll! I'll read the writing.
    Where every god did seem to set his seal
                Enter Ross and Angus.
    At least from fair five hundred pound a year.
    Many that have at times made moan to me;
  SECOND LORD. My most honourable lord, I am e'en sick of shame that,
    Driving back shadows over low'ring hills.
  BOLINGBROKE. So far be mine, my most redoubted lord,  
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    You are not young, no more am I; go to, then, there's
    Shall ne'er look back, ne'er ebb to humble love,
  SPEED. Nay, I was rhyming: 'tis you that have the reason.
  Prince. Well, breathe awhile, and then to it again; and when thou
    Now, Charmian!
                                                         Exeunt.
    Eternity was in our lips and eyes,
                                               [They walk away.]

    the warden pies; mace; dates- none, that's out of my note;
    it is the breathing time of day with me. Let the foils be
    Gazing on that which seems to dim thy sight?

    And given his deputation all the organs
  MICHAEL. Where's our General?
    Our army lies, ready to give up the ghost.
    ministers to me, asses, and do all they can to face me out of my
  SECOND LORD. How deep?
    Meantime, the court shall hear Bellario's letter.
  Although she knows my days are past the best,

  Verg. If he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none of the
    For I have heard that she was there in place.
  GRATIANO. He will, an if he live to be a man.
    Mercutio's kinsman, noble County Paris!

    Against the walls of Athens.
  Will you go with me? We'll mend our dinner here.
    Although against her will, as it appears
  But tell me yet, dost thou not know my voice?
  Thine eyes, that taught the dumb on high to sing,
    Thou art uprous'd with some distemp'rature;
          With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
    Our frustrate search on land. Well, let him go.
    Dennis!
    You made in a day, my lord, whole towns to fly.
  LUCIUS. I know his lordship is but merry with me;

    again.
  LENNOX. No indeed, my lord.
    to know, or to take upon yourself that which I am sure you do not
    But though they jump not on a just account-
    Shylock, the world thinks, and I think so too,
    Argus, all eyes and no sight.
    But in the estimation of a hair-
    To see a king transformed to a gnat!  
    But let our plot go forward. Let our wives
    I have lov'd thee-
  PROTEUS. Then let her alone.
  Ros. Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that
    full of peace as matter.
The field of battle
     The British pow'rs are marching hitherward.
    Having God, her conscience, and these bars against me,

  KING. Go thy ways, Kate.
    His tongue, all impatient to speak and not see,
    'Twixt me and one Baptista's daughter here.
  As I not for my self, but for thee will,
  PETRUCHIO. Grumio, my horse.

    Yet mark'd I where the bolt of Cupid fell.
    Without much shame retold or spoken of.
    Romeo's a dishclout to him. An eagle, madam,
                                                     [Kneels]
    Deceiv'd in thy integrity, deceiv'd
    For so he said he would.                         Play music.
    To mingle friendship far is mingling bloods.
    Ready with every nod to tumble down
    is already in the belief that he's mad. We may carry it thus, for
  COSTARD. Well, sir, I hope when I do it I shall do it on a full
    Do't not, thou split'st thine own.
                  Their manners are so apish.
  ARTHUR. Good my mother, peace!
  CHARLES. Your Grace may starve, perhaps, before that time.
    As if this flesh which walls about our life
    Come hither, Mistress Ford; Mistress Ford, the honest
Flourish. [Enter Claudius, King of Denmark, Gertrude the Queen, Hamlet,
    Obey, audacious traitor; kneel for grace.
    Awake, dear heart, awake; thou hast slept well;
    The scarfed bark puts from her native bay,
    I say! Go, John, go inquire for my master; I doubt he be
    Numbering our Ave-Maries with our beads?
    As thou and I, who, as thou knowest, are dear  
    Which great Love grant; and so I take my leave.
  IAGO. At my lodging.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Ah, cut my lace asunder
    Where no man never comes but that sad dog
    you answer to Pyramus. You speak all your part at once, cues, and
    As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this, ha?
                 Hence, you long-legg'd spinners, hence.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  Beaten the maids a-row and bound the doctor,
    Brothers to the King
    That's clapp'd upon the court gate.
  Osw. Madam, within, but never man so chang'd.
  CLEOPATRA. O, my pardon!
    Hath now entrapp'd the noble minded Talbot.
  Samp. Gregory, on my word, we'll not carry coals.
    To dispossess that child which is not his?

    an offence to stay a man against his will.
    Than to accomplish twenty golden crowns.
    And whine aloud for mercy. Take him hence.
  FIRST MURTHERER. Where is your husband?
    That, hearing of her beauty and her wit,
  HOLOFERNES. I will not be put out of countenance.
    How low am I, thou painted maypole? Speak.
    Strike at the heaven with your staves as lift them
    But bloody with the enemies of his kin.
    Die in his youth by like untimely violence!

    Have burnt that tongue than said so.
  CONSTABLE. I think he will eat all he kills.
    A gentleman that well deserves a help,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
by William Shakespeare
  ORLANDO. Nothing; I am not taught to make any thing.
  If any bark put forth, come to the mart,
    Know of your youth, examine well your blood,
    Was this the idol that you worship so?
    uneasy to get the cause of my son's resort thither. Prithee be my
    Alas, poor Proteus, thou hast entertain'd


                 Another part of the plain
    As black as Vulcan in the smoke of war.
  SALISBURY. As true as I believe you think them false
    Wert thou environ'd with a brazen wall.

  ARMADO. Villain, thou shalt fast for thy offences ere thou be
    And, dying, mention it within their wills,
    And told me that by water I should die;
  Leon. Faith, niece, you tax Signior Benedick too much; but he'll  
    Even of yourself, Lord Cardinal.
    Let me excuse me, and believe me so,  
    That I may see my shadow as I pass.                     Exit

  MUTIUS
    What is the time o' th' day?
    Not as fee. Grant me two things, I pray you,

    I'll lop a member off and give it you
    Finish the process of his sandy hour,
    For me, that I may surely keep mine oath,
    A sample to the youngest; to th' more mature
  CRESSIDA, daughter to Calchas
  PAROLLES. Why, I say nothing.
    that which will give language to you, cat. Open your
    Till each man drop by lottery. But if these,
    Being urged at a time unseasonable.
    If thou dost play with him at any game,
  The passages of alleys, creeks, and narrow lands;
    Wilt thou not answer, man?                     Exit DERCETAS
                         Re-enter LAFEU
  FALSTAFF. Take away these chalices. Go, brew me a pottle
    tame, and know their natures. Farewell, monsieur; I have spoken
ACT I. SCENE I.
  EMILIA. I will be hang'd, if some eternal villain,
    To trust the mock'ry of unquiet slumbers.

    conjure her, for certainly, while she is here, a man may live as
    Who take the ruffian billows by the top,
    Their proud contempt that beats His peace to heaven!  
  Of thy fair health, recounting it to me.
    Thou hast power to choose, and they none to forsake.
    Your face hath got five hundred pound a year,
  Encamped in hearts, but fighting outwardly.
    When it prov'd otherwise.?

  KING RICHARD. Thanks, noble peer!
    His Grace is at Marseilles, to which place
  SIR TOBY. Come thy ways, Signior Fabian.
  HOLOFERNES. Sir, tell not me of the father; I do fear colourable
    That I have ta'en away this old man's daughter,
    Of noble blood in this declining land.
    Revenge it on him-for I know thou dar'st,
    Entomb'd upon the very hem o' th' sea;
                           Exeunt severally PRIAM and HECTOR. Alarums
  TAMORA. Ah, my sweet Moor, sweeter to me than life!
    How ill-beseeming is it in thy sex
     From hence attend dispatch. Our good old friend,
                                                   [Exit Poins.]
  DARDANIUS. O Clitus!
    Were shame enough to shame thee, wert thou not shameless.
  AENEAS. Courtiers as free, as debonair, unarm'd,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  That he shall never cut from memory
    Nor be not grieved- she is of good esteem,
    Like to a step-dame or a dowager,
    languages and stol'n the scraps.  
    And what art thou, thou idol Ceremony?
  KATHARINE. Then die a calf, before your horns do grow.
    They love me well; yet I have much to do
  You are my all the world, and I must strive,
    In eye of Caesar's battle; from which place
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    my ribs. Father, I am glad you are come; give me your present to
SCENE 5.
    By how much the estate is green and yet ungovern'd;

    No more than were I painted I would wish
  CONSTABLE. You must first go yourself to hazard ere you have them.
                        Enter CORIN and SILVIUS
              From this earth-vexing smart.
    Upon the caves of Nile.
    And a demand who is't shall die, I'd say
    And now no more ado, brave Burgundy,
  Stirred by a painted beauty to his verse,
  SECOND DRAWER. Mass, thou say'st true. The Prince once set a dish
  EMILIA. Why, with my lord, madam.
  LORD. Camillo, sir; I spake with him; who now
  CLARENCE. No, no; he cannot long hold out these pangs.
    In my profession? Knighthoods and honours borne
    No more than to be Cawdor. Say from whence
    But bid Bianca farewell for ever and a day.
  HOSTESS. Ay, that 'a did.
    For Richard, the first son's heir, being dead,
    If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
                             [Throwing the water in their faces]
  LEWIS. All days of glory, joy, and happiness.

  RICHARD. Then, Clifford, were thy heart as hard as steel,
          But I will tarry; the fool will stay,
    With fury from his native residence.
  BURGUNDY. Myself, as far as I could well discern
  PROTEUS. No, Valentine.
    In Alexandria. Here's the manner of't:
  When in the least of them my life hath end,
    As here at home, suggests the King our master
    What worser place can I beg in your love,
    So pertaunt-like would I o'ersway his state
  GREMIO. Youngling, thou canst not love so dear as I.
  PROSPERO. Thou hast. Where was she born?
  BUCKINGHAM. Go, go, up to the leads; the Lord Mayor
  Prince. O monstrous! Eleven buckram men grown out of two!
  ISABELLA. I am the sister of one Claudio,
  SHYLOCK. Shylock is my name.
    If you do find them deck'd with ceremonies.
    Therefore, to arms. And, father, do but think
  TRINCULO. Stephano!
    Into an auger's bore.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. I cannot now speak. I will hear you soon.
    gone!
  MENENIUS. Hail to you both!
    box. Do intend vat I speak? A green-a box.
     What are you, sir?


    News, friends: our wars are done, the Turks are drown'd.
    canst.
    You ne'er oppress'd me with a mother's groan,
  PAINTER. 'Tis conceiv'd to scope.
    Sackerson loose twenty times, and have taken him by the
                          [They heave ANTONY aloft to CLEOPATRA]
London. CARDINAL BEAUFORT'S bedchamber
  Gent. A servant that he bred, thrill'd with remorse,
    Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day,
  Thy pyramids built up with newer might
  TRANIO. Why, sir, I pray, are not the streets as free
    But now two paces of the vilest earth
  HECTOR. It is Cassandra.
  KING HENRY. Can we outrun the heavens? Good Margaret, stay.
     A love that makes breath poor, and speech unable.
  Hot. If he fall in, good night, or sink or swim!
    Of such as have before endur'd the like.
    The silence often of pure innocence
    their letters to meet me in arms by the ninth of the next month,
    Of all his wars within the realm of France?

  CRESSIDA. Good night. I prithee come.                 Exit DIOMEDES

    The pride of Suffolk and the Cardinal,
  POLIXENES. Sir, that's to-morrow.
    This seeming brow of justice, did he win

    What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
    Ah, would she break from hence, that this my body
    But look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
    o'ershine you as much as the full moon doth the cinders of the
  ANNE. Their aunt I am in law, in love their mother.
  FRENCHMAN. Will this hold, think you?
ACT III. SCENE I.
  CAIUS. Sir Hugh send-a you? Rugby, baillez me some paper.
    For there will be a world of water shed
    And give my tongue-tied sorrows leave to speak.
  Your name from hence immortal life shall have,
  The ring I saw upon his finger now-
  Mer. Could you not take some occasion without giving
    Of divers witnesses; which the Duke desir'd
    You cry against the noble Senate, who,
    Thou shouldst be colour'd thus. You married ones,
    With whom my soul is any jot at odds
  Pitiful thrivers in their gazing spent?
     Knowing naught (like dogs) but following.
    And be it death proclaimed through our host
  Say he dines forth, and let no creature enter.
  KING. Go, call before me all the lords in court.
     ready?
                                            [Flies after BIANCA]
    Let me in safety raise me from my knees,
    And interchang'd love-tokens with my child;
    king's. No, on both in one, or one in both. I am the king, for so
    Come on, our queen; to-morrow must we part;
    that he will steal himself into a man's favour, and for a week
    And as the soldiers bore dead bodies by,

    Cancel and tear to pieces that great bond  
    Whose frown hath made thee faint and fly ere this!
    But I will have them, if I once know where.
    And throw their power i' th' dust.
    The object and the pleasure of mine eye,
    No, Leonato,
  BOLINGBROKE. Your will be done. This must my comfort be-
    Didst ever hear a man so penitent?
    Just Death, kind umpire of men's miseries,
    Therefore this order hath Baptista ta'en,
  BEROWNE. Sick at the heart.
    O villainy, villainy!
    Thy wife and children's blood. For myself, son,
  Dog. Come you, sir. If justice cannot tame you, she shall ne'er
     Decline your head. This kiss, if it durst speak,
  BOLINGBROKE. So that by this intelligence we learn
  TITANIA. I pray thee, gentle mortal, sing again.
  BASSANIO. 'Confess' and 'love'
  TIMON. You witch me in it;
    Your patience so predominant in your nature,
    Tell him this tale, and from the mouth of England
  Ver. Do me no slander, Douglas. By my life-
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  FIRST LORD. None better than to let him fetch off his drum, which
  ARCHBISHOP.  [To the QUEEN]  My gracious lady, go.
  Both [Mar. and Ber.] We do, my lord.
    venuto; where I will prove those verses to be very unlearned,
Dramatis Personae
    My idleness doth hatch. How now, Enobarbus!
  SIR JOHN. She shall not need; we'll meet her in the field.
    What is the remedy?
    Rich men look sad, and ruffians dance and leap-
  Beat. Why, no; no more than reason.
  Fran. Anon, anon.
    An odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds
  PROSPERO. Thy mother was a piece of virtue, and
    Besides, upon the very siege of justice,
  Wife. A fortnight and odd days.
             These yellow cowslip cheeks,
  CLOWN. Yes, by Saint Anne; and ginger shall be hot i' th' mouth
     Of Bedlam beggars, who, with roaring voices,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  SERVANT. Madam, there is alighted at your gate
    Wife, go you to her ere you go to bed;
    And, as the jest did glance away from me,
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, be honest, be honest; and God bless your  
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Thus I mend it: Time himself is bald,
    Ready to fight; therefore be resolute.
  AENEAS. 'Tis the old Nestor.
           A very, very- pajock.
    That has such people in't!

    coming on of time with 'Hail, King that shalt be!' This have I
    Being our kinsman, if we revel much.
    I never long'd to hear a word till now;
    So are they all; for every grise of fortune
    marvellous good neighbour, faith, and a very good bowler; but for
  BIGOT. Out, dunghill! Dar'st thou brave a nobleman?
    Above a better gone, so must thy grave
         And cuckoo-buds of yellow hue
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
KING_HENRY_VIII|EPILOGUE

  PISANIO. If you'll back to th' court-
    the peace you make in their cause is calling both the parties
    He cannot buckle his distemper'd cause  
    Then, Joan, discover thine infirmity
    Come, follow me, boy,. Come, sir boy, come follow me.
    Therefore, O Antony, stay not by his side.
                                     Opens the letter and reads.
    Am not I your Rosalind?  
    Now kiss, embrace, contend, do what you will.
    fellow, my lord, that so confidently seems to undertake this
    I fear the Emperor means no good to us.
         Enter HECTOR, TROILUS, AJAX, AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES,
    look you, wept herself blind at my parting. Nay, I'll show you
    And then end life when I end loyalty!
  Good sister, let us dine, and never fret.
    I pardon thee thy life before thou ask it.
    Lest you be cropp'd before you come to prime.
    This is the hand that stabbed thy father York;
    or sweet breaths, will, for my kind offer, when I make curtsy,
    Where should he find it purer than in Blanch?
  SECOND CITIZEN. I promise you, I scarcely know myself.
    rhyme. I have tried. I can find out no rhyme to 'lady' but 'baby'
  BARDOLPH. Run away with the cozeners; for so soon as I
  CAESAR. Be't so. Declare thine office.
    Put him to choler straight. He hath been us'd
  YORK. Wouldst have me kneel? First let me ask of these,
    That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
    Who crown'd the gracious Duke in high despite,
    It is Lord Angelo.
  BEROWNE. In what manner?
    within this hour that ballad-makers cannot be able to express it.
    And 'tis well seen he found an enemy.
    Cobweb. If I cut my finger, I shall make bold with you. Your
    Add an immortal title to your crown!
    To-morrow for the march are we addrest.
    That for a fantasy and trick of fame
    That thou couldst see my wars to-day, and knew'st
    It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
    the heart-blood of beauty, love's invisible soul-
    A hog, a headless bear, sometime a fire;
  CRESSIDA. To bring, uncle.
  Claud. Away! I will not have to do with you.
  Mer. This cannot anger him. 'Twould anger him
  LUCIUS. How?
  Rom. Then move not while my prayer's effect I take.

  Nay, more: if any born at Ephesus
  MACBETH. You are, and do not know't.
    indeed a scruple itself.
                                       Exeunt MRS. PAGE and ANNE
     'To shut me out! Pour on; I will endure.
  CAESAR. Nor heaven nor earth have been at peace tonight.
    Thy brother Edward; and thyself, the sea
  SOLDIER. Enobarbus, Antony
    Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
  Guil. Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
    Of these events at full. Let us go in,
    I'd let a parish of such Cloten's blood,
    Not that I pity Henry's misery,
  RIVERS. Have patience, madam; there's no doubt his Majesty
  SIMPLE. Well, sir.
    Our most disloyal lady; for, as she hath
  CELIA. Go to. Will you, Orlando, have to wife this Rosalind?
    Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain
  CLOWN. I would, therefore, my sister had had name, sir.
     Than on a wretch whom nature is asham'd
    Lies on my tongue. No, Percy, thou art dust,
    is dat knave, Rugby?
    Our legions are brim-full, our cause is ripe:
    From forth thy reach he would have laid thy shame,
  For beauty's pattern to succeeding men.  
  PETRUCHIO. Ay, to the proof, as mountains are for winds,
  GLOUCESTER. Entreat her not the worse in that I pray
  For he is bound to sea, and stays but for it.
    revenge against him. If thou canst cuckold him, thou dost thyself
      first congee unto her, then dance; and, at certain
    Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter,
     Search every acre in the high-grown field
    She melted into air. Affrighted much,
  Fal. There's neither honesty, manhood, nor good fellowship in thee,
    Causeless, perhaps. But pardon me, sweet aunt;
  SUFFOLK. 'Tis like the commons, rude unpolish'd hinds,
    And that shall be the day, whene'er it lights,
  CALIBAN. Hast thou not dropp'd from heaven?

    And in my vantbrace put this wither'd brawn,
  Shall neigh (no dull flesh) in his fiery race,
    Our trumpet call'd you to this gentle parle-
    From Love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.

    Bless this unworthy husband? He cannot thrive,
    And on their skins, as on the bark of trees,
  GLOUCESTER. Your beauty was the cause of that effect-
    Some true love turn'd, and not a false turn'd true.
    on her shoulders for all Messina, as like him as she is.
     But yet I call you servile ministers,
    Why sweat they under burdens?- let their beds
    Now go to the door, and stay there till we call.
  ANTONY. My precious queen, forbear,
  KING. Why then, good morrow to you all, my lords.
    discretion so weakly. Will you laugh me asleep, for I am
    Gasping for life under great Bolingbroke;
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Yes, to pay a fine for a periwig, and
    From off the rock Tarpeian, never more
SCENE 5.
    I have bewept a worthy husband's death,
    Than in possession any jot of pleasure.
    such a hare is madness the youth, to skip o'er the meshes of good  
    As amorous of their strokes. For her own person,
    But one that scorn to live in this disguise
    Who is here? What, are you packing, sirrah?

    Dream on, dream on of bloody deeds and death;
    Buck, buck, buck! ay, buck! I warrant you, buck; and of
    Measure our confines with such peaceful steps?
  CORIOLANUS. Now th' art troublesome.
    No faith, no honesty in men; all perjur'd,
  ISABELLA. Be ready, Claudio, for your death to-morrow.
  CLEOPATRA. Nay, that's certain.
    So grace and mercy at your most need help you,
    of quality- I hope to be saved.
    What pain it cost, what danger! Gods!
    That this same very day your enemies,
    But, had it been the brother of my blood,
    This gallant pins the wenches on his sleeve;

    Look, if my gentle love be not raised up!
    That stands upon your royal grandsire's bones,
    Nor once be chastis'd with the sober eye
    Here comes your cousin.
    Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
  GAOLER. Hanging is the word, sir; if you be ready for that, you are
    He heareth not, he stirreth not, be moveth not;
    In Italy, and her confederate arms,
    Upon my life, I am a lord indeed,
    And once again I do receive thee honest.
    Why, then, let grievous, ghastly, gaping wounds
    Though he be grown so desperate to be honest-
    No loving token to his Majesty?
  GLOUCESTER. What! think you we are Turks or Infidels?
  TROILUS. You are for dreams and slumbers, brother priest;
    But with them change of honours.
KING RICHARD THE SECOND
    Give with our niece a dowry large enough;
    More stern and bloody than the Centaurs' feast.
    have wooed in thy name, and fair Hero is won. I have broke with
    T' accept my grief, and whilst this poor wealth lasts
    You, as your business and desires shall point you,
  The basest jewel will be well esteemed:
    That married with Othello. [Raises his voice.] You, mistress,
    do so, their fathers being so sick as yours at this time is?

    As is the razor's edge invisible,
  By blunting us to make our wills more keen.
     What he hath utter'd I have writ my sister.
  GLOUCESTER. Be patient; they are friends-Ratcliff and Lovel.
    In argument of praise, or to the worth
    My words disbench'd you not.
    Of Charles the Great. Also King Lewis the Tenth,
  KING HENRY. Soldier, why wear'st thou that glove in thy cap?
  DUCHESS. Thy life answer!
    Make bold her bashful years with your experience;
    Rough cradle for such little pretty ones.
    Three times to-day I holp him to his horse,
  RATCLIFF. Your Highness told me I should post before.
    That is another's lawful promis'd love.                 Exit
    Hereditary sloth instructs me.
  Bene. If I do, hang me in a bottle like a cat and shoot at me; and
    These griefs and losses have so bated me
    Now for our consciences, the arms are fair,
    What treason there is mingled with your love.
    care a pin if the other three were in. Here comes one with a
  GRATIANO. Where's your master?
    Thou virtuous Dauphin, alter not the doom
  TITUS. Lavinia, wert thou thus surpris'd, sweet girl,
    That my pent heart may have some scope to beat,
  FIRST SERVANT. Ay.
    If you would grant the time.
    An ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
    a cup of sack. I am a rogue if I drunk to-day.
    And he first took exceptions at this badge,


    And hast thou kill'd him sleeping? O brave touch!
    Fire answers fire, and through their paly flames
    In peace, to his utmost peril.
    Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.
    Shall lose me. What! in a town of war,
     I know thee well enough; thy name is Gloucester.
  STANLEY. Full of wise care is this your counsel, madam.
    Thou dost so crown with gold! This blows my heart.

    Like witless antics, one another meet,
  TITANIA. What, wilt thou hear some music, my sweet love?
     loyalty, something fears me to think of.
    Follow his strides, his lobbies fill with tendance,  
  DUKE. The General of our Horse thou art; and we,
    I'd have you do it ever. When you sing,

    God and our good cause fight upon our side;
  2. Mus. I say 'silver sound' because musicians sound for silver.
    go-between, parted from me; I say I shall be with her between
  Urs. Sure, sure, such carping is not commendable.
  AGUECHEEK. If I cannot recover your niece, I am a foul way out.
    Not Gloucester's death, nor Hereford's banishment,

    drum.
  Against confounding age's cruel knife,
  KING HENRY. Far be the thought of this from Henry's heart,
    And Humphrey with the peers be fall'n at jars;  
    trouble me no more with vanity. I would to God thou and I knew
    Some powerful spirit instruct the kites and ravens
    I'll answer thee in any fair degree
    out of your company.
  FALSTAFF. Money is a good soldier, sir, and will on.

    And let your mind be coupled with your words.

                        Re-enter Trebonius.

  CORIOLANUS. What must I say?
  PETRUCHIO. Well, come, my Kate; we will unto your father's
    other day that Troilus, for a brown favour, for so 'tis, I must
    Kill the still-closing waters, as diminish
    Till I conveniently could send to Romeo.
    For Brutus only overcame himself,
  RATCLIFF, about the mid of night come to my tent
    Death makes no conquest of this conqueror;
    Shall bear the olive freely.

    His barbed steeds to stables, and his heart
    That once were his, and is become as black
WARWICK, and others

    In the unshrinking station where he fought,
    That he should be so abject, base, and poor,
  JULIA. And is that paper nothing?
    He is Sir Robert's son, and so art thou.
    To give us warrant from the hand of heaven
    very responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and of
  MARIA. Marry, and it shall be done to-morrow morning, if I live. My

    A place of potency and sway o' th' state,
       Enter KING JOHN, ELINOR, BLANCH, the BASTARD,
    Of their afflictions, and shall not myself,
    If this be magic, let it be an art
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    I'll take the better care; but if you will not,
    Majesty, in my conscience.
    A sceptre, or an earthly sepulchre!'  
    charge thee
    That's a brave god, and bears celestial liquor.
  Osr. The King, sir, hath laid that, in a dozen passes between
               Let nobody blame him; his scorn I approve-"
    Be wary then; best safety lies in fear.

    And go we to attire you for our journey.
    Have I not in my time heard lions roar?
    art. Look you, who comes here?
    That God fought for us.
  LADY MACDUFF. Sirrah, your father's dead.
    All this away, and me most wretchcd make.
  IAGO. Why, then, 'tis hers, my lord, and being hers,
  Nurse. Ay, forsooth.
  TAMORA. Stay, Roman brethen! Gracious conqueror,
  IAGO. I did.
     In my corrupted blood. But I'll not chide thee.
    No, with no more than if we heard that England
  DUKE. Wise? Why, no question but he was.
AEMILIA, wife to AEgeon; an abbess at Ephesus
    Set in a notebook, learn'd and conn'd by rote,
    Few come within the compass of my curse-
    Menenius does! O my son! my son! thou art preparing fire for us;
  AUFIDIUS. Where is this fellow?
    I must die much your debtor.
  TITUS. 'Tis sure enough, an you knew how;
  BASSANIO. I pray thee, good Leonardo, think on this.
    one visor remains.
    their limbs whole and hack our English.
    That's verily. 'Tis best we stand upon our guard,
  Samp. 'Tis true; and therefore women, being the weaker vessels, are
     My love should kindle to inflam'd respect.
    An heretic, an arch one, Cranmer; one
    they speak i' the nose thus?
  Prince. I did; I saw him dead,
  QUEEN MARGARET. Renowned Prince, how shall poor Henry live
    How Caesar hath deserved to lie in death,
    Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. The fellow is distract, and so am I;
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Claudio to prison? 'Tis not so.
    Will blow these sands like Sibyl's leaves abroad,

    your stay with him may not be long; that the time may have all
    And flourishes his blade in spite of me.
    But that thou interruptest our merriment.
    Does by their own insinuation grow.
    Of necessary fitness?
    That by their witchcraft thus have marked me.

  ARMADO. I have promised to study three years with the Duke.
    That e'er I watch'd, and the most heaviest.           Exeunt
    Of all the kingdom. Many more there are,
    Flatter and praise, commend, extol their graces;
  DAVY. No worse than they are backbitten, sir; for they have
  SAY. Ah, countrymen! if when you make your pray'rs,
  Jul. Art thou gone so, my lord, my love, my friend?
  DUMAIN. [Aside to BOYET] He may not by the yard.
  VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA. Nay, 'tis true.
Enter HELENA and CLOWN
    'Tis beauty that doth oft make women proud;
     friendship falls off, brothers divide. In cities, mutinies; in  
  PROCULEIUS. You do extend
    Cousin of Hereford, as thy cause is right,
    Our party may well meet a prouder foe.                     Exeunt
    Go, bid thy master well advise himself.
                       Enter BIONDELLO
    Many a story hath he told to thee,

  CHIRON. Villains, forbear! we are the Empress' sons.
    I saw Bassanio and Antonio part.  
    And from the Bishop's huntsmen rescu'd him;
    Have found him guilty of high treason. Much
  KING RICHARD. Madam, with all my heart.
    Which holds but till thy news be uttered;
  SILENCE. Is't so? Why then, say an old man can do somewhat.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Whoe'er 'a was, 'a show'd a mounting mind.
  FIRST GUARD. A simple countryman that brought her figs.
    If thou best slain and with no stroke of mine,
ADRIANA. Ah, Luciana, did he tempt thee so?
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    daughter's flight.
Enter EXETER, BEDFORD, and WESTMORELAND
    Ere so prevail'd with me; it will in time
    The thief doth fear each bush an officer.
  CAIUS. By gar, 'tis no the fashion of France; it is not jealous

  MURTHERER. Ay, my good lord. Safe in a ditch he bides,
    If I would lose it for a revenue
    And that high royalty was ne'er pluck'd off,
  KING EDWARD. Therein thou wrong'st thy children mightily.
    Let not the cloud of sorrow justle it
    away my blood, were there twenty brothers betwixt us. I have as
    Simple, plain Clarence, I do love thee so
    Did scare away, or rather did affright;

    And these external manner of laments  
  QUEEN. No further service, Doctor,
    You must lay down the treasures of your body
          As you from crimes would pardon'd be,  
     And, to deal plainly,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    tell me.

  FLAVIUS. My dear lord-
    Wear prayer-books in my pocket, look demurely,
  By that sweet ornament which truth doth give!
                           [Hamlet moves him to put on his hat.]
  BRUTUS. You know the very road into his kindness
  OTHELLO.                     I will deny thee nothing,
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    To set a gloss on faint deeds, hollow welcomes,
    We have again. Remember, sir, my liege,
    With whispering and most guilty diligence,


    Of Hotspur, Coldspur? that rebellion
    death?
  And then go to my inn and dine with me?
    To break within the bloody house of life,
    But now, I do respect thee as my soul.
    defy the devil; consider, he's an enemy to mankind.  
    All wanton as a child, skipping and vain;
                         Enter PUCK
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Nay, then, thus:
    next way to give poor jades the bots. This house is turned upside
    rich offerings, and traders riding to London with fat purses. I
                 Enter HARRY PERCY
    And hellish obstinacy tie thy tongue,
    That, being unseminar'd, thy freer thoughts
    To all his lands and signories. When he is return'd,
  ARMADO. I say, sing.
    Yea, overshines ourself.
  FORD. I will never mistrust my wife again, till thou art able
    From shelves and rocks that threaten us with wreck,
    Dangers, doubts, wringing of the conscience,
    these set kind of fools no better than the fools' zanies.
    of their wits, they would have no more discretion but to hang us;
  TIMON. I am Misanthropos, and hate mankind.
    and I am the dog- O, the dog is me, and I am myself; ay, so, so.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    To France, to France, and get what you have lost;
  GOBBO. Master young gentleman, I pray you, which is the way to
    Achieve the elder, set the younger free
    For that it stands not in such warlike brace,
    Ten times more gentle than her father's crabbed;
  HOST. Ay, come; quick.

    in; therefore, out of my love to you, I came hither to acquaint
  Bal. Romeo.
    That to Laertes I forgot myself,

    I do is to pleasure you, coz. Can you love the maid?
  PETRUCHIO. Why, that is nothing; for I tell you, father,
    A space for farther travel.
  NYM. The humour rises; it is good; humour me the angels.
               So good night, with lullaby.
  ANTONY. I must with haste from hence.
    And he beseech'd me to entreat your Majesties

  Ham. How absolute the knave is! We must speak by the card, or
    That have been so bedazzled with the sun

    content you?
    As I bethink me, you should not be King

    Thou divine Imogen, what thou endur'st,

  BEROWNE. Our states are forfeit; seek not to undo us.
  MONTAGUE. So God help Montague as he proves true!

    For friends kill friends, and the disorder's such
  JESSICA. Nay, let me praise you while I have a stomach.
    March sadly after; grace my mournings here
  IAGO. 'Zounds, sir, you are one of those that will not serve God,
    To weep is to make less the depth of grief.
    You minimus, of hind'ring knot-grass made;
    The violent fit o' th' time craves it as physic
    A giving hand, though foul, shall have fair praise.
  CAESAR. Cleopatra,
  TITUS.  [To TAMORA]  Now, madam, are you prisoner to an emperor;
    A combination and a form indeed
  Tell me thou art my son Antipholus.
    Therefore I say-
    For Dickon thy master is bought and sold.'
    And the first motion, all the interim is  
    To keep those many many bodies safe
    And, winking, leapt into destruction.
Westminster Abbey
    I spy life peering; but I dare not say
    Whilst I, with those that have the spirit, will haste

    But wise men, folly-fall'n, quite taint their wit.
    Accounted dangerous folly. Why then, alas,
  ROSALINE. It is not so; for how can this be true,
    O heavens! is't possible a young maid's wits
  CHARMIAN. By your most gracious pardon,
    Peace, villain, peace!'- even thus he rates the babe-  
    Take but degree away, untune that string,
  TROILUS. Sweet Pandarus!
    Keeps still in Dunsinane and will endure
    Will ever after droop. Here cease more questions;
    To teach a teacher ill beseemeth me.
    show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
  And hear at large discoursed all our fortunes;

    Unto the camp, and profits will accrue.
    And I had rather glib myself than they
    Nor you, my brother, with your true sword drawn,
    Yet from my dugs he drew not this deceit.
    That my remembrance warrants. Had I not
    I must be gone and live, or stay and die.
    For fear of that I still will stay with thee


    I here could pluck his Highness' frown upon you,
  DUKE. And here comes Claudio's pardon.
          With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
     Might I but live to see thee in my touch,
    Th' entreaties of your mistress! Satisfy!

    Methinks I should revive the soldiers' hearts,
    Which, when he has a house, he'll deck withal.
    Not shriving time allow'd.
    So weeping-smiling greet I thee, my earth,
    Her eye discourses; I will answer it.
    Is colder tidings, yet they must be told.
    Than that of painted pomp? Are not these woods
    Will answer our hope in issue of a king;
    And knit our powers to the arm of peace.
    Unarm, sweet Hector.
    By that which he will utter?
      Attendants
    For terror, not to use, in time the rod
    Either to suffer shipwreck or arrive
    The best persuasions to the contrary
    By him for whom these shames ye underwent?

  PISTOL. In cash most justly paid.
    very good tailor.
  Gon. [aside] I had rather lose the battle than that sister
   Than cherishing th' exhibiters against us;
    Base Phrygian Turk!
Rome. A street
    To incur a private check. When shall he come?
    An honourable husband. Come, Camillo,
  plain bald pate of Father Time himself.
  KATHERINA. That I'll try.                    [She strikes him]
    Who sues, and kneels, and says 'God save the Queen'?
    This rock and these demesnes have been my world,
  BRAKENBURY. I am, in this, commanded to deliver
    Than any that draws breath in Italy.

  A Sexton.
  QUINCE. Is all our company here?
  KING. Teach us, sweet madam, for our rude transgression
    This child of fancy, that Armado hight,
    Holds from all soldiers chief majority

    May be abused? Have you not read, Roderigo,
  LADY MACBETH. Give him tending;
    Of whom your swords are temper'd may as well
    And cry 'Your will?' Have you no ears? I am
  Ham. Aha boy, say'st thou so? Art thou there, truepenny?
    Which with experimental seal doth warrant
    have pinch'd a placket, it was senseless; 'twas nothing to geld a
    Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.

    As they had seen me with these hangman's hands.
                                       Kent here set at liberty.
    These eyes that never did nor never shall
  HELENA. You draw me, you hard-hearted adamant;
    And be her sense but as a monument,

  King. Theft with the losers let it sympathize,
OLIVIA'S garden
  ROSS. Ay, on the front.
    O, sit my husband's wrongs on Hereford's spear,

PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  GENTLEMAN. Women will love her that she is a woman
  SECOND MESSENGER. Jack Cade hath gotten London Bridge.  
    What says Andronicus to this device?
  Par. Of honourable reckoning are you both,
    To bring forth this discov'ry. Seek these suitors.  
    Not willing any longer conference,
     That I may speak. I'll write straight to my sister
  TWO LORDS of Cymbeline's court
    For doubtless Burgundy will yield him help,
    Her mood will needs be pitied.
    And prais'd be rashness for it; let us know,
  MAYOR. Do, good my lord; your citizens entreat you.
    Ravish our daughters?  [Drum afar off]  Hark! I hear their
    With letters of commission from the King.
  DOLL. Hang him, swaggering rascal! Let him not come hither; it is
                   Enter AARON the Moor
  FIRST SERVANT. Nay, it's no matter for that.
AEGEON. Proceed, Solinus, to procure my fall,
  PAINTER. Our late noble master!
  SICINIUS. Especially in pride.
    More than remembrance of my father's death.             Exit
    There then! how then? what then? Let me see wherein
    The King doth smile at; and is well prepar'd

  BRUTUS. Why ask you? Hear you aught of her in yours?  
    bill, so wedlock would be nibbling.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
     should be as ward to the son, and the son manage his revenue.
Enter COUNTESS and CLOWN
    Dost thou attend me?
  AMIENS.    Under the greenwood tree
    tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with
  Is a mad tale he told to-day at dinner
  BELARIUS. What? how? how?
  GRUMIO. O, sir, the conceit is deeper than you think for.
    By his loved mansionry that the heaven's breath
  DUMAIN. Once more I'll read the ode that I have writ.
    O, would to God that the inclusive verge
  CASSIUS. Casca,
  Mon. But I can give thee more;
    And fighting foot to foot.
  ULYSSES. Here comes himself to guide you.  
    Towards fronting peril and oppos'd decay!
    Even till that utmost corner of the west
  OTHELLO. That he hath used thee.
  SHYLOCK. I take this offer then: pay the bond thrice,  
  Verg. Marry, sir, our watch to-night, excepting your worship's
    Corrupted, and exempt from ancient gentry?
    Reprieve thee from thy fate, it should proceed.
  DESDEMONA. O, that's an honest fellow. Do not doubt, Cassio,
    something too crabbed that way, friar.
  OTHELLO.                         I know, Iago,
    the proverbs and the noverbs. Give me thy hand, terrestrial;
    That cannot so much as a blossom yield
  VIOLA. My father had a mole upon his brow.
  LUCIUS. Then I'll go fetch an axe.
    But that of coward hares, hot goats, and venison!
    hand; for she hath privately twice or thrice a day, ever since
  CLIFFORD. In dreadful war mayst thou be overcome,

  COUNTESS. Return you thither?
    That cop'st with death himself to scape from it;
    And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
    to the guests within. [Exit Francis.] My lord, old Sir John, with
    How many thousands of my poorest subjects
    As this ingrate and cank'red Bolingbroke.
    friends.  [Unmuffling him]  So look about you; know you any here?
  ANTONY. He shall not live; look, with a spot I damn him.
  IAGO.                                That's not amiss;
    with discretion. There is no man hath a virtue that he hath not a
  DUKE. Love you the man that wrong'd you?
  CLEOPATRA. Go to, go to.
    Will not so graceless be to be ingrate.
    And the place death, considering who thou art,
  VALENTINE. To do what?
    To revel it with him and his new bride.'
    Look when he fawns, he bites; and when he bites,
  YORK. My ashes, as the phoenix, may bring forth
    And even there, his eye being big with tears,
    prettiest villain; she fetches her breath as short as a new-ta'en  

    suit,
    Have brought ourselves into a burning fever,
    Weigh but the crime with this.
    last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
  OTHELLO.            [Rises.] O, she was foul!
    Compare our faces and be judge yourself.
    Is, as in mockery, set. The spring, the summer,  

  SIR THOMAS VAUGHAN
    And yet I love him.
    invincible spirit; but it shall be convenient, Master Hume, that
    Do what you will; your wisdom be your guide.
  CLEOPATRA. By sea! What else?
    Have shown to thee such a declining day
    Time-pleasers, flatterers, foes to nobleness.
    Lords, Citizens of Angiers, Sheriff, Heralds, Officers,
    Bids thee with most divine integrity,
    you shall be married to-morrow. [To ORLANDO] As you love
    Cannot be questioned.
    She is corrupted, chang'd, and won from thee;
  GLOUCESTER. Go, after, after, cousin Buckingham.
    Suspecting that we both were in a house
    The gentleman is learn'd and a most rare speaker;
    Corrects the ill aspects of planets evil,
    Thoughts tending to ambition, they do plot
    misprised: we will make it our suit to the Duke that the
    When they next wake, all this derision
  could find no whiteness in them; but I guess it stood in her
  ARRAGON. I am enjoin'd by oath to observe three things:
    Beshrew the winners, for they play'd me false!
    Epistrophus and Cedius. Polixenes is slain;
    Which, like a usurer, abound'st in all,

  Verg. Nay, that's certain. We have the exhibition to examine.
    No, though be thought his accusation true.
  And from my false hand cut the wedding-ring,
                                                 Exit SERVINGMAN
    O, let me make the period to my curse!
    side of care. My cousin tells him in his ear that he is in her  

    The baby of a girl. Hence, horrible shadow!
    Lob down their heads, dropping the hides and hips,
  Better becomes the grey cheeks of the east,

    Fierce to their skill, and to their fierceness valiant;
    A cold and drowsy humour; for no pulse
  SECOND OUTLAW. Thou shalt not live to brag what we have offer'd.
  MENENIUS. You have told them home,
    is but heading and hanging.
    And bears his blushing honours thick upon him;  
    Once for thy sprightly comfort, and tenfold
  NURSE. Aaron, it must; the mother wills it so.
    whores call'd him mandrake. 'A came ever in the rearward of the
    Therefore, good cousin, let not Harry know,
    Stand'st thou aloof upon comparison?
               "He was a wight of high renown,
    In shadow of such greatness! With you, Lord Bishop,  
    And for dissension, who preferreth peace
  JAQUES. Will you be married, motley?
    That I will by to-morrow dinner time
    It was the owl that shriek'd, the fatal bellman,
    And she alone is heir to both of us.

    Dear lord, go you and greet him in his tent.
    What is thy name? Discuss.
    This told, I joy, but then no longer glad,
            With thy grapes our hairs be crown'd.
      A woman I forswore; but I will prove,
    They are all fire and every one doth shine;
    Who had been hither sent on the debating
    there's one meaning well suited.
     At point a hundred knights; yes, that on every dream,
    Comes through commissions, which compels from each
    the recov'ry of the King, as to be-
  ROSS. The King hath happily received, Macbeth,
    Though so denied fair harbour in my house.
    doors, never trust me.
    Well, sir, this gentleman is come to me
    lightly rewarded.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Marry, sir, for this something that you gave
                                          Exeunt all but Brutus.

    Thou map of honour, thou King Richard's tomb,
  ROSALINE. They are worse fools to purchase mocking so.
    Forethought by heaven!
    A pack of blessings light upon thy back;
      Duke of Norfolk.
    little measure draw a belief from you, to do yourself good, and
                                             Exeunt [severally].
  BARDOLPH. Go to; stand aside.
                Enter PANDULPH
    And we shall jointly labour with your soul
    The Earl of Hereford was reputed then
               'Among nine bad if one be good,
    Marcus, unknit that sorrow-wreathen knot;
  ARTHUR. Alas, what need you be so boist'rous rough?
    Women, help heaven! Men their creation mar
    How fares my brother? Why is he so sad?
    Must give- for what? For lead? Hazard for lead!
    He bade me store up as a triple eye,
    Dearer than Pluto's mine, richer than gold.
    How, in our means, we should advance ourselves
  Prince. Then brother John of Lancaster, to you
     Election makes not up on such conditions.
    The lees and dregs of a flat tamed piece;
  Yet what of thee thy poet doth invent,
    fourteen,' an hour after, 'a trifle, a trifle.' I prithee call in
  CRESSIDA. O Jupiter! there's no comparison.
      The tedious day with sleep.
  QUEEN. You know the peril.
    Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke, and made
    To several subjects. Heaven hath my empty words,
               Glendower speaks to her in Welsh, and she answers
    Now, by the stock and honour of my kin,
  ACHILLES. Good night and welcome, both at once, to those
    'Twere pity two such friends should be long foes.

    am a Jew. I will go get her picture.                   Exit.
    And though I have for barbarism spoke more
    years? O that he were here to write me down an ass! But, masters,
  PAROLLES. My lord, you do me most insupportable vexation.
    Witness the fortune he hath had in France.
    ship.
    because I am a Jew's daughter; and he says you are no good member
    sack be the issue. Come, lay their swords to pawn. Follow
    We honour you with trouble; but we came
  BONA. Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,
  LORENZO. O dear discretion, how his words are suited!
    Of such a thing as thou- to fear, not to delight.
    Thou mayst prove false. At lovers' perjuries,
    let us to our work.
    From forth the ranks of many thousand French,
    From that it is disposed; therefore it is meet
  TITUS. Why, Marcus, so she is.
  KING RICHARD. I cry thee mercy.

  Ham. Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool
    And dispossessing all my other parts
    For I profess not talking. Only this-
  Fal. All? I know not what you call all, but if I fought not with
  And will thy soul knows is admitted there,
                bearing the regalia
A camp in Wales
  DIANA. It was not lent me neither.
    And his more braver daughter could control thee,  
    Thy match was mortal to him, and pure grief

    Had nature lent thee but thy mother's look,

  Keep then fair league and truce with thy true bed;
  MALCOLM. With this there grows

    I do not know from what part of the world
    Our just and lineal entrance to our own!
    Turn all to th' best! These proclamations,
    Constrains them weep and shake with fear and sorrow,
    To give the enemy way, and to secure us
    That you are now a maid. Thus then in brief:
   tres cher et divin deesse?
    Here made by th' Roman; great the answer be
    Clarence, thy turn is next, and then the rest;

  FENTON. Nay, Master Page, be not impatient.
    live!' and 'as God shall mend me!' and 'as sure as day!'
    Call you this gamut? Tut, I like it not!
    I'll pour this pestilence into his ear,

    And make us even with you. My Thanes and kinsmen,  
  FABIAN. A good note; that keeps you from the blow of the law.
  In a cold valley-fountain of that ground:
  THURIO. But well when I discourse of love and peace?  
  Tailor, Haberdasher, and Servants attending on Baptista and
    Look upon him, love him; he worships you.
    Thy father was the Duke of Milan, and
    Argues your wisdoms and your love to Richard.'
  LARTIUS. So, the good horse is mine.
    And but my going nothing can redeem it.
    That mercy which true prayer ought to have.
  SIR TOBY. Good, good!
  BRUTUS. What said he when he came unto himself?
    Your most obedient counsellor; yet that dares
    Constrain'd to watch in darkness, rain, and cold.
  DUKE. O, fellow, come, the song we had last night.
  I never saw that you did painting need,
    Nor did not with unbashful forehead woo
  Dog. Yea, in 'twere a thousand pound more than 'tis; for I hear as
    Or any kind of light,
  SPEED. Open your purse, that the money and the matter may be both
    Grows dainty of his worth, and in his tent
    Which shackles accidents and bolts up change,
    Be not as common fools; if you are not,
  MOTH.      If she be made of white and red,
  PAULINA. Indeed, my lord,

    marry, sir. Rafe Mouldy! Let them appear as I call; let them do
  BOY. No, sir; he stays for you to conduct him thither.
    me.

    Acquaint my mother with my hate to her,
London. The court
    The rather for I think I know your hostess
    That bottled spider, that foul bunch-back'd toad!
    pray, all you that kiss my Lady Peace at home, that our armies
    My favour here begins to warp. Not speak?
    Than when he bites, but lanceth not the sore.
    Made him a man; and though thou livest and breathest,

    That see I by our faces. We are fellows still,
    Being sick, have in some measure made me well;
    And give sweet passage to my sinful soul.

    is at door! On my Christian conscience, this one christening
  POLIXENES. O, then my best blood turn
    No touch of bashfulness? What! Will you tear
  Fal. And here I stand. Judge, my masters.
    That York is most unmeet of any man.

    For sure he fills it up with great ability,
  FLAVIUS. If 'twill not serve, 'tis not so base as you,
    Let me thy servant and not sovereign be.
  She that her fame so to herself contrives,
    Cries of itself 'No more!' Now breathless wrong
  POPILIUS. Fare you well.
    Man-ent'red thus, he waxed like a sea,
    He was a scholar, and a ripe and good one;
    And now, I will unclasp a secret book,
  OLIVIA. Get you to your lord.
    Against black pagans, Turks, and Saracens;
    pailfuls. What have we here? a man or a fish? dead or
  KING RICHARD. O, good! Convey! Conveyers are you all,
    As if besmear'd in hell. Sit by us; you shall hear-
    The Duke of Alencon flieth to his side.
     uncover'd body this extremity of the skies. Is man no more than
    Hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been
  Ben. Away, be gone; the sport is at the best.
    Though his right arm might purchase his own time,
    Be not, as is our fangled world, a garment
    As frankly as a pin.
    you what further becomes his greatness, even to the utmost
    As broad and general as the casing air;
    Tells them he doth bestride a bleeding land,

    Is that my prize? Are my deserts no better?
    To you that know them not. This to my mother.
    lord, he desires you that, if the King call for him at supper,
    And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.


    And, gentle Longaville, where lies thy pain?
  TRANIO. Sir, I shall not be slack; in sign whereof,
     displeasure neither to speak of him, entreat for him, nor any
    Leave not the mansion so long tenantless,
    company!-

    More sins for this forgiveness prosper may.
    I hope it be not gone to tell my lord
                                      Exeunt OFFICERS with LUCIO
    And make us heirs of all eternity.
    I am the sorrier; would 'twere otherwise.
  ULYSSES. [To AGAMEMNON] My lord, you feed too much on this dislike.

    Men shall deal unadvisedly sometimes,
     And of the loyal service of his son
  I must attend, time's leisure with my moan.  
            As the winter to foul weather.
OFFICER. That labour may you save; see where he comes.
    The interruption of their churlish drums
                                    [Leaning his band upon DOLL]
    fellow of this temper, Kate, whose face is not worth sunburning,
    As 'twere retail'd to all posterity,

FORD'S house
    To whom 'tis instant due. Nev'r speak or think
  IAGO. Ay, too gentle.
the other Thanes, and Soldiers.
  EMILIA.                        Here's a change indeed!
    And wrap our bodies in black mourning-gowns,
    That, when thou com'st to kneel at Henry's feet,
    To use our utmost studies in your service.
    Come, let us sup betimes, that afterwards
  Ben. Tut, man, one fire burns out another's burning;
    Ten years are spent since first he undertook  
    This dangerous treason, lurking in our way
    That has no relish of salvation in't-
    Thrusts forth his horns again into the world,
    What hath been cannot be. Who ever strove
    Some consequence, yet hanging in the stars,
  
    Whose compass is no bigger than thy head;
    And she respects me as her only son.
    Shall carry from me to the Empress' sons
    Heard you of nothing strange about the streets?
  Edg. 'Tis noble Kent, your friend.
  OLIVIA. Here, wear this jewel for me; 'tis my picture.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  Since I their altar, you enpatron me.
    Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
  TAMORA. And here in sight of heaven to Rome I swear,
  CAESAR. You take from me a great part of myself;
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. No, sir, 'tis in grain; Noah's flood
     My oath, and my profession. I protest-
    That so his sickness, age, and impotence
    Of very expert and approved allowance;
    And think thee worthy of an empress' love.
    Why, what a devil's name, tailor, call'st thou this?
    Hamlet the Dane.                    [Leaps in after Laertes.
    I never had to do with wicked spirits.
    given you one face, and you make yourselves another. You jig, you
    To rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave.
    I come to pierce it or to give thee mine.
    What had he done to you?
    Upon my daughter's head! Tell me, mine own,
ACT II. SCENE 2.
  GRATIANO.                                    Fie!
A street.
    But thus his simple truth must be abus'd
    That stands upon the swell at the full of tide,
  KING. [Reads] 'So it is'-
    I shall have none but Mordake Earl of Fife.
    Be gentle grave unto me! Rather on Nilus' mud

    What, have you met with her?
    bear, and have their heads crush'd like rotten apples! You may as
    And, in his mantle muffling up his face,  
                              [Kisses them. IRAS falls and dies]
    And though he were unsatisfied in getting-
    The by-gone day proclaim'd. Say this to him,
SCENE II.
    Methought that Gloucester stumbled, and in falling
  Those parts of thee that the world's eye doth view,
                                                  Exeunt EXECUTIONERS
  Mer. Why, may one ask?
  CLOWN. Truly, I have him. But I would not be the party that should
           Exeunt all but PRINCE JOHN and the LORD CHIEF JUSTICE
  BRUTUS. Even by the rule of that philosophy
    And with some sweet oblivious antidote
    Give place. By heaven, thou shalt rule no more
    But so it is, it is not. Was this taken
    Our discontented counties do revolt;
    thee to disgrace her.
    He bade me say so, more than all the sceptres

    will strike him; if she do, he'll smile and take't for a great
ACT I. SCENE 2.
                 There's yet one good in ten.'
    cannot enjoy her.
    That wounds me with the flatteries of his tongue.
    Signior Leonato, truth it is, good signior,
    Gratiano and Lorenzo. Fare ye well;
ACT V. SCENE I.
    Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
  Rom. Pardon, good Mercutio. My business was great, and in such a
    particulars is more than to answer in a catechism.
    Yea, though thou do demand a prisoner,
    Come hither, Harry; sit thou by my bed,
    From bogs, fens, flats, on Prosper fall, and make him
  ENOBARBUS. Well;
    O, in this love, you love your child so ill
  Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
    He has it now; and by his looks methinks
    Pleads your fair usage; and to Diomed
prove mine own marring. But to the purpose, and so to the venture.
    other men. I do here walk before thee like a sow that hath
    The best is past. Brother, my lord the Duke,
    with thee again.
    I'll never give o'er. First, a very excellent good-conceited
                        Enter HECTOR
    The rebels have assay'd to win the Tower.
  AUFIDIUS. Whence com'st thou? What wouldst thou? Thy name?

    Tower, to defend the city from the rebels.
    Come, therefore, let us fly while we may fly:
  SIR TOBY. Nay, if you be an undertaker, I am for you.
    They say best men moulded out of faults;
     kibes?
SCENE II.
  LAUNCE. That's monstrous. O that that were out!
    Fore-thinking this, I have already fit-
    into the compass'd window-and you know he has not past three or
    To frown upon th' enrag'd Northumberland!
    for it is a naughty house.
PETRUCHIO, KATHERINA, HORTENSIO, and WIDOW. The SERVINGMEN with TRANIO,
    Near to the King in blood, and near in love
    And rebels' arms triumph in massacres!
    And high top bald with dry antiquity,
  CORIN. And to you, gentle sir, and to you all.
    Foster'd, illumin'd, cherish'd, kept alive.
  And what's a fever but a fit of madness?
     Or, whilst I can vent clamour from my throat,  
  POLIXENES. We were, fair Queen,
    Unless he seek to thrust you out perforce.
    You valiant offspring of great Priamus.
    Through proof of harness to my heart, and there
    The kings of Mede and Lycaonia, with
    'This is no flattery; these are counsellors
Enter ADRIANA, within
    The Alps doth spit and void his rheum upon;
  BOTTOM. I cry your worships mercy, heartily; I beseech your
  DUNCAN. What he hath lost, noble Macbeth hath won.
    But hark, a voice! Stay thou but here awhile,
  Leon. Come, Friar Francis, be brief. Only to the plain form of
    But I'll amerce you with so strong a fine
    And, Charles, upon condition thou wilt swear
    Thou art too gentle and too free a man.
    But me and mine; how happy art thou then
  FIRST HERALD. Harry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby,
  CRIER. Katharine Queen of England, come into the court.
  CHIRON. Thou hast undone our mother.
  APEMANTUS. I would my tongue could rot them off!
    Our chimneys were blown down, and, as they say,
    upon him.

DROMIO OF EPHESUS. O Villain, thou hast stol'n both mine

    In the protection of his son, her brother,
     Beloved sons, be yours; which to confirm,
    Safer shall he be upon the sandy plains
    As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
    It is enacted in the laws of Venice,
    Nor once deject the courage of our minds
  KING EDWARD. Yea, brother of Clarence, art thou here too?
    Tongues spit their duties out, and cold hearts freeze
                        Enter HORTENSIO
    There was 'a gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
  SECOND LORD. Y'are deceiv'd, my lord; this is Monsieur Parolles,
    The plot of situation and the model,
                               SCENE 4.
    Such violent hands upon her tender life.
    maid hath been seduced by them; and the misery is, example, that
    up a rod, as being worthy to be whipt.  
    And ev'n that pow'r which gave me first my oath
    And bade me, if I had a friend that loved her,
    While I make way from hence to save my life.
  VALENTINE. Dost thou know her by my gazing on her, and yet know'st
    Than to be sure they do; for certainties

    Many, nay, almost any.
  MACDUFF. See, who comes here?
    scale.                                                  Exit
    Till you do live to see a son of mine
  CASSIUS. Yet I fear him,
    That such a valiant company are fled.
    I thank you for this profit, and from hence
    But I am constant as the northern star,
    Unfit to hear moral philosophy.
    We may surprise and take him at our pleasure?
  PRINCE HENRY. At Worcester must his body be interr'd;
    Hath dimm'd your infant morn to aged night.
    eaten them, but not for love.
    I have great matters to impart to thee.

    For disobedience to your father's will,
  CASCA. I can as well be hang'd as tell the manner of it. It was
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  GUIDERIUS. Pray draw near.

  SECOND WATCHMAN. Ay, wherefore else guard we his royal tent
  PISTOL. Fortune is Bardolph's foe, and frowns on him;

  You come not home because you have no stomach,
    And bid me stand aloof, and so I did.
    And there the strawy Greeks, ripe for his edge,
    One Ragozine, a most notorious pirate,  
    An apple cleft in two is not more twin
    His fortunes I will weep, and 'twixt each groan
    That took away the match from Isabel,  
  KING. How, I pray you?

  AUMERLE. For ever may my knees grow to the earth,

    Forc'd in the ruthless, vast, and gloomy woods?  
  ANTONIO. The Duke cannot deny the course of law;
    That, lying by the violet in the sun,
  Bene. What, my dear Lady Disdain! are you yet living?
  VINCENTIO, a Merchant of Pisa
  CHAMBERLAIN. I left him private,
    eyes. Did her eyes run o'er too?
  Cap. Will you tell me that?
    Sermons in stones, and good in everything.
    As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays.
  FALSTAFF. But to stand stained with travel, and sweating with
    And yet I must remember you, my lord,  
     Will yield to see his daughter.
    But better look'd into, he truly found
    Villain, thy own hand yields thy death's instrument.  
  Alb. Stay till I have read the letter.
    Methinks I see a quick'ning in his eye.
  Chief Watch. Hold him in safety till the Prince come hither.
    Traduc'd by ignorant tongues, which neither know
    Stop thy unhallowed toil, vile Montague!
    behalf; and thus far I confirm you. O you gods, think I, what
    And so scape hanging. Trust not the physician;
  Pedro. Come, lady, come; you have lost the heart of Signior
    For our advantage on the bitter cross.
    That most may claim this argument for ours?
    Drag back our expedition. Certain horse
    tongue to conceive, nor his heart to report, what my dream was. I
  TITANIA.    Come, my lord; and in our flight,
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Being cross'd in conference by some senators.
    What I shall die to want. But this is trifling;  
  PORTIA. That 'scuse serves many men to save their gifts.
  CLOWN. That man should be at woman's command, and yet no hurt done!
    Do deeds worth praise and tell you them at night.
  MALVOLIO. Sir Toby, I must be round with you. My lady bade me tell
    Yet indirection thereby grows direct,
    How, with his banners, and his well-paid ranks,  
    absent) and there shall appear such seeming truth of Hero's  
  DUCHESS. If so, then be not tongue-tied. Go with me,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    I knew not what to take and what to leave? Ha!          Exit

    Here tend the savage strangeness he puts on,
    To lie close by his honest bones; but now
  REIGNIER. Let's raise the siege. Why live we idly here?

    Hermione, my dearest, thou never spok'st

    Well, I'll go hide the body in some hole,

  CAESAR. You are too indulgent. Let's grant it is not
  CLOWN. Put your grace in your pocket, sir, for this once, and let
                                                 A noise within.
    unlawful intents? We shall not then have his company to-night?
  CORIOLANUS. This last old man,
  LEONTES. No; if I mistake
    The want whereof doth daily make revolt
                                   Exeunt GOVERNOR and his train
    When in a wood of Crete they bay'd the bear
  ANTONY. Let him that loves me, strike me dead.
    These worms for loving, that art most in love?
    Matter against him that for ever mars
    Corrupted honest men! Dispatch. Enobarbus!            Exeunt
    Is my report to his great worthiness.
    I mean, in bearing weight of government,
  KING HENRY. All things are ready, if our minds be so.
    All sworn and honourable- they induc'd to steal it!
    Once in a month recount what thou hast been,  
    The sun's a thief, and with his great attraction
    Upon a just survey take Titus' part,
    To her he hates? And wherefore doth Lysander
  ROSALIND. Alas!
    How shall I honour thee for this success?
  ROSS. Why, well.
    And Earl of Richmond; and this rich fair town
    well-weighing sums of gold, to corrupt him to a revolt.' What say
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Why, sir, I brought you word an
    Would in so just a business shut his bosom
    Or never after look me in the face.
  LUCIO. If the Duke, with the other dukes, come not to composition
  PUBLIUS. What is your will?
    If it be thus to dream, still let me sleep!
  Ham. Sir, a whole history.
    Youth, beauty, wisdom, courage, all
    Their purposes toward Cyprus. Signior Montano,
    This present grief had wip'd it from my mind.
     Come.                  Exeunt [Lear and Cordelia, guarded].
  Fal. What thing? Why, a thing to thank God on.


  AGUECHEEK. So could I too.
              To be exil'd and thrown

    Like quills upon the fretful porpentine.
    You shall not in your funeral speech blame us,
    For his, it stuck upon him as the sun
    'Twere childish weakness to lament or fear.
    Is by a forged process of my death
  myself.
    Shall bear along impawn'd, away to-night.
  GLOUCESTER. So will it, madam, till I lie with you.
    therefore should we be magistrates.
  KING RICHARD. And buried, gentle Tyrrel?
  A needy, hollow-ey'd, sharp-looking wretch,
  BERTRAM. So should you be.
    May be beholding to a subject,
    Mark'd by the destinies to be avoided,
    With an auspicious, and a dropping eye,
    wear; owe no man hate, envy no man's happiness; glad of other

    Yea, the whole Consistory of Rome. You charge me
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    you we knew where the bona-robas were, and had the best of them
    It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
  ANTONY. My good knave Eros, now thy captain is
  KING RICHARD. Thou sing'st sweet music. Hark, come  
    father was a bachelor. He may keep his own grace, but he's almost
    Shall nothing wrong him. Thus it is, general.
    Who tells me true, though in his tale lie death,
                                                       Exit MOTH
    Not separated with the racking clouds,
                            Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
    And you are stay'd for. There- my blessing with thee!

COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  GLOUCESTER. Here, Winchester, I offer thee my hand.
    Flow'd with her beauty once; 'tis shrewdly ebb'd,
                         Enter OFFICERS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Will deign to sip or touch one drop of it.
    And be in debt to none- yet, more to move you,
    Have, for the gilt of France- O guilt indeed!-
    My grisly countenance made others fly;
    And let these have a day appointed them
    hath borne me on his back a thousand tunes. And now how abhorred
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I have some marks of yours upon my pate,
    As plates dropp'd from his pocket.
  DUNCAN. Give me your hand;
    A creature of the Queen's, Lady Anne Bullen.'
    wherefore should one bastard? Take heed, the quarrel's most
  SUFFOLK.  [Aside to NORFOLK]  I another.
    Wishes and tears, poor Fancy's followers.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    And I shall have no power to follow you.
    So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
    I fly thee, for I would not injure thee.
     When I inform'd him, then he call'd me sot

    Be rough and razorable; she that from whom
    Corioli like a planet. Now all's his.
  ENOBARBUS. You have done well by water.
    And less than this, I am sure, you cannot give.
    'Tis not unknown to thee that I have sought
  A FORESTER
    She dying, as it must be so maintain'd,
    Amongst your cloven army.
  KING PHILIP. You are as fond of grief as of your child.
    Thou shalt remain here whether thou wilt or no.
    To-day, as I came by, I called there-
    Nor the prevention of poor Bolingbroke  
          Enter a third SERVINGMAN. The first meets him
  PORTIA. Ay, but I fear you speak upon the rack,
  KING RICHARD. Ay, I thank God, my father, and yourself.
    But thou shouldst please me better wouldst thou weep.
  CALCHAS. Now, Princes, for the service I have done,
  NATHANIEL. And thank you too; for society, saith the text, is the
    By any indirection. I did send
  LUCILIUS. O young and noble Cato, art thou down?
  
    This wicked Emperor may have shipp'd her hence;
                                                        'EDGAR.'
    'Twas full two years ere I could get a tooth.
    That can be with a nimble galliard won;
    To give the judgment.
    And bear it to the chapel.
  SEBASTIAN. You were kneel'd to, and importun'd otherwise
    When you, and those poor number saved with you,
    Love, I am full of lead. Some wine,
    I can, Petruchio, help thee to a wife
    Thy wit, that ornament to shape and love,
  THIRD SERVANT. What have you to do here, fellow? Pray you avoid the
    My music playing far off, I will betray
    Upon the beached verge of the salt flood,
    To grace this latter age with noble deeds.  
    wall have I climb'd into this garden, to see if I can eat grass
    He should espouse Elizabeth her daughter.
  POLIXENES. Nine changes of the wat'ry star hath been
    art said to be Achilles' male varlet.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. What, to York? Call him back again.
    not be excus'd. Why, Davy!
    They eat us hungerly, and when they are full  

  TAMORA. I will not hear her speak; away with her!
    Thus would I eat it.                         [Eating a root]
    Herein misled by your suggestion.
    Have buried them for prey.
    while.
    Now is a time to storm; why art thou still?
  SECOND WATCH. What man is this?
    And worth it, with addition! But, fair soul,

  MOTH. And out of heart, master; all those three I will prove.
  VOLUMNIA. Should we be silent and not speak, our raiment

Alarum and retreat. Enter again CADE and all his rabblement
    The Lord Bassanio live an upright life,
    For such a sum from special officers
  Hor. What's that, my lord?
    Yoke-fellow to his honour-owing wounds,
    I'll give thee fairies to attend on thee;
ADRIANA. But, were you wedded, you would bear some sway.
    But when it first did help to wound itself.
  MIRANDA. Your tale, sir, would cure deafness.

    Now! What says the world
  LUCIUS. O, say thou for her, who hath done this deed?
    But truth is truth: large lengths of seas and shores
  Lady. Fie, fie! what, are you mad?
    Many a time hath banish'd Norfolk fought  

  Pedro. Good den, Good den.
    Adieu till then; then fail not. You have won
    Will do as if for surety. He holds me well,
  BIONDELLO. She says you have some goodly jest in hand:

    May one be pardon'd and retain th' offence?
  PAROLLES. That's for advantage.
  CRESSIDA. Will you walk in, my lord?
    forth.
    Of Coeur-de-lion knighted in the field.
    Have you a father?
    Lest with this piteous action you convert
    In rage, deaf as the sea, hasty as fire.

    your gossiplike humour. You break jests as braggards do their
    Of yet this scarce-cold battle, at this instant
  SPEED. True, sir; I was in love with my bed. I thank you, you
  Lear. And here's another, whose warp'd looks proclaim
  MOWBRAY. But he hath forc'd us to compel this offer;
    sleeping.
    And know it now, the Senate have concluded
    And that unbodied figure of the thought  
  PAROLLES. To any count; to all counts; to what is man.
  As the death-bed, whereon it must expire,
    But speak, Egeus; is not this the day
  What breast so cold that is not warmed here?
    so I commit you--
  Hot. Why, so can I, or so can any man;
  MONTANO.                 If that the Turkish fleet
    Come, brother, let's to the highest of the field,
    The County Paris, at Saint Peter's Church,
  Sometimes her levelled eyes their carriage ride,
    There stripp'd himself, and here upon his arm
    And I but dream'd it. As you were past all shame-
    I say they nourish'd disobedience, fed
  THURIO. How likes she my discourse?
  IAGO. Indeed!  
                                      Throws up [another skull].
    Washes it off, and sprinkles in your faces
  BRUTUS. O ye gods,

    And flecked darkness like a drunkard reels
  Glou. Then prithee get thee gone. If for my sake
    To lash the rascals naked through the world
    Sent from my brother Worcester, whencesoever.
  WINCHESTER. How now, ambitious Humphry! What means
    To die when I desire.                                   Exit
  Fool. Thy asses are gone about 'em. The reason why the seven stars
    That my discovery be not aimed at;
    I am a poor fall'n man, unworthy now
  BRUTUS. Mark'd you his lip and eyes?
     His grief grew puissant, and the strings of life
    Had the full view of, such a noise arose
  MALVOLIO. Sir Topas!


    Unknown to woman, never was forsworn,
    Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
    My clouted brogues from off my feet, whose rudeness
    And as mine eye doth his effigies witness
    They say our French lack language to deny,
    Our aediles smote, ourselves resisted? Come!
    is so implacable that satisfaction can be none but by pangs of
  OTHELLO. Why did I marry? This honest creature doubtless
    Which at more leisure I will so excuse
    And on his father's. We did train him on;
  KING. O God of battles, steel my soldiers' hearts,
  PHILARIO. Your very goodness and your company

    This deed of thine is no more worthy heaven
    They cut thy sister's tongue, and ravish'd her,
    done to Elbow's wife that he hath cause to complain of? Come me
  SIR TOBY. Shall this fellow live?
                                                         Exeunt.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Yes; 'tis the list
  And in my will no fair acceptance shine?
    Whose life's as tender to me as my soul!
     So farewell.
    The woman's part in me! For there's no motion
  FIRST LORD. A pox on 't; let it go; 'tis but a drum.
  With April's first-born flowers and all things rare,
    But, soft, here come my executioners.
    Than are the tender horns of cockled snails:


    Of you, my noble cousin, Lord Aumerle;
    Serves to say thus, 'Some good thing comes to-morrow.'
    Our offices and what we have to do
  Hero. Help to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ursula.
    His dagger drew, and died. For all the rest,
     That which my father loses- no less than all.
    do yourself wrong indeed, la!                         Exeunt
    Will whisper music to my weary spirit.
    As 'twere i' th' father's person; kisses the hands
  FALSTAFF. What say you, Scarlet and John?
  I sent him from the mart. See, here he comes.
    Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd  

    Bade her wrong stay and her displeasure fly;
  PROVOST. I'll make all speed.                             Exit  
  ROSALIND. And I for no woman.
    Bardolph and Nym had ten times more valour than this roaring
    All to the Senate House; some news is come

    Rich garments, linens, stuffs, and necessaries,
    I doubt whether their legs be worth the sums
    Where she yet never was.                       Exit, guarded
    Killing them twice. O, give us leave, great King,
    some speech with you; the satisfaction I would require is  
    Nor wit nor reason can my passion hide.
    here's a small trifle of wives; alas, fifteen wives is nothing;
     My boon I make it that you know me not
  But I protest he had the chain of me,
  Could all my travels warrant me they live.
    Stinking and fly-blown lies here at our feet.
    Your vows to her and me, put in two scales,
  TITUS. He doth me wrong to feed me with delays.
  VALENTINE. Nothing.
    with joy, pleasance, revel, and applause, transform ourselves
  BOYET. Therefore, as he is an ass, let him go.  
  GLOUCESTER. Is it but thought so? What are they that think it?
    She is the hopeful lady of my earth.
  Beat. It is so indeed. He is no less than a stuff'd man; but for
     To know our enemies' minds, we'ld rip their hearts;
    I be not thine. To this I am most constant,
  FORD. O, understand my drift. She dwells so securely on the

    'Twixt natural son and sire! thou bright defiler
    instant. By heart you love her, because your heart cannot come by
SCENE III.
    to you, I think the King is but a man as I am: the violet smells
    [To POLIXENES]  Yet of your royal presence I'll
  DAUPHIN. My most redoubted father,

    When she did suckle Hector, look'd not lovelier
    Are natural breath; but, howsoe'er you have
    And therefore think him as a serpent's egg
    prop? Do you know me, father?
    Not after our command. Away with her,
          So the fool follows after.                       Exit.
    Of moving accidents by flood and field,  
    which are often the sadness of parting, as the procuring of mirth.
    Hence grew the general wreck and massacre.
    it was given me by Costard, and sent me from Don Armado. I
  PATROCLUS. Thou must tell that knowest.
    Unto the daughter of a worthless king,
    One of our order, to associate me

        "Air," quoth he "thy cheeks may blow;
    For aye thy foot-licker.
    And natural graces that extinguish art;
Athens. TIMON'S house
    And in this vow do chain my soul to thine!

  Ham. I must to England; you know that?
    ladies. Good night, good night.                         Exit
  SIR TOBY. My niece's chambermaid.

    Though thou abhorr'dst in us our human griefs,
  GRATIANO. Not on thy sole, but on thy soul, harsh Jew,
    In a disguise of love.
    Divides one thing entire to many objects,  
    O this false soul of Egypt! this grave charm-
  Ham. No, good mother. Here's metal more attractive.
<Exit
     That we present us to him.
    Alarum'd by his sentinel, the wolf,
    That, had he twenty heads to tender down  
    Upon the present state, whose numbers threaten;
    rather, gentle Princess, because I love thee cruelly. If ever
    Such a Sebastian was my brother too;
    Impatient of his fit, breaks like a fire
    Unfather'd heirs and loathly births of nature.
    Harry to Harry shall, hot horse to horse,
  To find out shames and idle hours in me,
    To bear me company and go with me;
    But as I come, I come for Lancaster.
    Upon whose age we void it up again
  What means the world to say it is not so?
    In most rich choice; yet, in his idle fire,
    And spirits walk and ghosts break up their graves-
  PAGE. Good Master Ford, be contented; you wrong yourself
Enter [Edmund the] Bastard and Curan, meeting.
    hear music, and see the gentleman that you ask'd for.  
    Have chose as umpire of their mutiny.
    One of the greatest in the Christian world
    Why, foolish Lucius, dost thou not perceive

    Agamemnon and all Greece.
    proclamation, and he rails upon me.
    play my father.
    husband, another elevated that the oracle was fulfill'd. She
  FENTON. Good Mistress Page, for that I love your daughter
    Where lies thy grief, O, tell me, good Dumain?
    Advance our standards, set upon our foes;
  Kent. I thought the King had more affected the Duke of Albany than
    What, Davy, I say!
             Re-enter ARIEL like a water-nymph
    Great is the rumour of this dreadful knight,
                         Enter BARDOLPH
    Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon,
    Stick fiery off indeed.

    Buys herself bread and clothes. It is a creature
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. I do well believe you.

    You were now running o'er. You have scarce time
  FROTH. All-hallond eve.

  TITANIA. These are the forgeries of jealousy;
    Hector! Look how he looks. There's a countenance! Is't not a  
  REIGNIER. I do embrace thee as I would embrace
  ALL. We understand it, and thank heaven for you.
  EDMUND, EARL OF RUTLAND, his son
    when she is sated with his body, she will find the error of her
  When love converted from the thing it was
    Pageants, and sights of honour.
  FIRST MURDERER. We will, my noble lord.                 Exeunt
    My mortified spirit. Now bid me run,
    you our voices heartily.
    But to the sport abroad. Are you bound thither?

    hotter in France than there.
    As he being drest to some oration.'
    What's here! [Reads] 'Against the Duke of Suffolk, for enclosing
    And dispossess her all.
  NERISSA. True, madam; he, of all the men that ever my foolish eyes
    demanded of a sponge, what replication should be made by the son
  GOWER. The town sounds a parley.
    O, what a beast was I to chide at him!
    Forerunning more requital.
  CORIOLANUS. At Antium lives he?
    Servants to Petruchio
  ANTONIO. He could not miss't.
  HERMIA. O me! you juggler! you cankerblossom!
    Unto Bianca, fair and virtuous.
    For York in justice puts his armour on.
  Thou that art now the world's fresh ornament,
    Like foggy south, puffing with wind and rain?
  TIMON. Imprison'd is he, say you?
    to-morrow night; and meet me in the palace wood, a mile without

    Whiles I go tell my lord the Emperor
    Yet shall you have all kindness at my hand
1602
  IMOGEN. A father cruel and a step-dame false;

    Unless philosophy can make a Juliet,
    A little from this ground.
SCENE II.
    you may, when you hear no more words of Pompey, return it again.
 CANTERBURY. It must be thought on. If it pass against us,
  PEMBROKE. Sir, sir, impatience hath his privilege.
  FIRST LORD. We will not meddle with him till he come; for his
  WARWICK. Thereon I pawn my credit and mine honour.
    Clapp'd wings to me.
  Do I envy those jacks that nimble leap,
    Of their observant toil, the enemies' weight-
    Forgive me, cousin.' Ah, dear Juliet,
  DEMETRIUS. Nor me, so I were one.
  BOYET. Good sir, be not offended;
    Meantime receive such welcome at my hand
    Their brains with care, their bones with industry;
    And how by this their child shall be advanc'd,

  FIRST SERVANT. Here they'll be, man. Some o' their plants are
    If this foul deed were by to equal it.
  BERTRAM. Some six months since, my lord.

    doth turn his hate
    And by-and-by my master drew on him;
  Fal. If I be not ashamed of my soldiers, I am a sous'd gurnet. I
    Than where castles mounted stand.'
    Should fall as Jacob's hire, the ewes, being rank,  
  WINCHESTER. Abominable Gloucester, guard thy head,

  CONSTANCE. Thou mayst, thou shalt; I will not go with thee;
     A saucy roughness, and constrains the garb
    But I bethink me what a weary way
  One thing expressing, leaves out difference.
    That fell away have entertainment, but
    That's your device.
    A pretty tale. It may be you have heard it;

    Unto the shore, to ask those on the banks
  MARGARET. An if my father please, I am content.
  CELIA. I did not then entreat to have her stay;
               Enter the COUNTESS and her PORTER

    Let me see thine eyes; wink now; now open them;
                                                [Giving a crown]
ACT I. SCENE 2.
    That he would labour my delivery.
    And then I will her charmed eye release
    Rode on his tide. Go tell him this, and ad
    For blood of ours shed blood of Montague.
  VALENTINE. Why, she hath not writ to me.
    Thus are poor servitors,
    Why fled you from the court? and whither? These,
  ANGELO. That you might know it would much better please me
  LUCIUS. O detestable villain! Call'st thou that trimming?
    Their rotten privilege and custom 'gainst
    The beggary of his change; but 'tis your graces  
           Were still at odds, being but three.
    Fails in the promis'd largeness; checks and disasters
  WARWICK. I think his understanding is bereft.
    To weep at what I am glad of.
                                                          Exeunt
    Her chambers are all lock'd, and there's no answer  

    Love, charity, obedience, and true duty!
                  [Sound a parley. RICHARD and CLARENCE whisper]
             All follow this and come to dust.
    Thy sorrow in my breast. Come, ladies, go
  THIRD WITCH. And I another.
  CAESAR. Not till he hears how Antony is touch'd
    morning;
    Together with a recompense more fruitful
    For many so arrive at second masters
  OTHELLO. Are you sure of that?
      to do me shame.
  Rom. And trust me, love, in my eye so do you.
  OLIVIA. O, what a deal of scorn looks beautiful
    Your loving uncle, twenty times his worth,
    We'll ne'er come there again.'  
    gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may say)
  Ham. As th'art a man,
  For nimble thought can jump both sea and land,
Enter RICHARD, JOHN OF GAUNT, with other NOBLES and attendants
    Schoolmasters will I keep within my house
    fatherly.- Good morrow to your Majesty and to my gracious mother.
    afeard? Thou being heir apparent, could the world pick thee out  
  Mother. Good night.
Enter MENENIUS, COMINIUS, SICINIUS and BRUTUS, the two Tribunes, with others
  AUFIDIUS. I am attended at the cypress grove; I pray you-
    though I cannot remember what I did when you made me
  ROSALIND. Those that are in extremity of either are abominable
    But wonder on, till truth make all things plain.
  LAFEU. Mine eyes smell onions; I shall weep anon. [To PAROLLES]
  DUKE. Which is that Barnardine?
    To give away your self, keeps your self still,
SCENE V.

  1. Watch. This man said, sir, that Don John the Prince's brother
  Osr. I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
    The benefit of our levies, answering us
  SANDYS. The red wine first must rise
    Of wreakful heaven, whose bare unhoused trunks,
  VALENTINE. What would your Grace have me to do in this?
    Prick'd on by public wrongs sustain'd in France,
    That they shall think we are accomplished
                     104
    Whither the Queen intends. Forward; away!             Exeunt
  Ham. It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gaingiving as
    There's more in't than fair visage. Bullen!
    Or died where they were made, or shortly after

                                           [PISTOL and Nym draw]
  DIOMEDES. Farewell till then.
             No more yielding but a dream,
  Rom. Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress. I protest unto
    At young Elizabeth, my brother's daughter,
    Lonely, apart. But here it is. Prepare
   For I have made an offer to his Majesty-
    Presumptuous vassals, are you not asham'd
    As Beatrice is, cannot be commendable.
    But gladly would be better satisfied
    there were no living near her; she would infect to the North
    And hang thee o'er my tomb when I am dead.
    But on mine honour dare I undertake

  Fast'ned ourselves at either end the mast,
    Mowbray, the Bishop Scroop, Hastings, and all,
  IRAS. Madam, O good Empress!
                         Enter Polonius.
    Do it with gentle means and easy tasks.  
    The dead with charity enclos'd in clay-
    Fading in music. That the comparison
  PUCELLE. Done like a Frenchman-  [Aside]  turn and turn
  Pedro. For my life, to break with him about Beatrice!
    He is a friend. Cinna, where haste you so?
    The merry songs of peace to all his neighbours.
               BRUTUS take their places by themselves.
  EARL BERKELEY
    Of all that world of wealth I have drawn together
    place; where we will, not appearing what we are, have some
  SOMERVILLE. It is not his, my lord; here Southam lies.  
  A Sergeant

    Replying shrilly to the well-tun'd horns,
  And thither hied a sad distempered guest.
    man? Which is the way? Is it sad, and few words? or how? The
    stand my friend. She has nobody to do anything about her when I
  MARCIUS. As with a man busied about decrees:
  DECIUS. I have, when you have heard what I can say.
     Exasperates, makes mad her sister Goneril;
    To hale thy vengeful waggon swift away,
    When it is all to nought, and his quails ever
  VALERIA. In truth, la, go with me; and I'll tell you excellent news
    She'll home to her father; and provide me presently
    Where life hath no more interest but to breathe!
    As was your former; but she shall be such  
  Henry, Prince of Wales, son to the King.
    caught with tickling.
    this advise you, follow. So he wishes you all happiness that
  Mine eye and heart are at a mortal war,
    as a fox.
    That ever said I heark'ned for your death.
    I think there's never a man in Christendom
    And if she did play false, the fault was hers;
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  VIOLA. And you, sir.
    His funerals shall not be in our camp,
  AUFIDIUS. Wert thou the Hector
    Rome and her rats are at the point of battle;
    For you shall hence upon your wedding day.
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    To pardon me yet for a night or two;
    Is only Helena. To her, my lord,
    Would bark your honour from that trunk you bear,
    the town, by moonlight; there will we rehearse; for if we meet in
    A deed of dreadful note.
    Did broach this business to your Highness, or
  DUKE. There rest.
    love this maid?
    Or mangled shalt thou be by this my sword.  
  MERCHANT. O, 'tis a worthy lord!
    Shall yield them little, tell the Constable.
    Shall keep his native progress, but surcease;
  CRANMER, ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
                        Enter WARWICK
  Claud. 'Tis true indeed. So your daughter says. 'Shall I,' says
  MACDUFF. That way the noise is. Tyrant, show thy face!
  ANTONIO. I am as like to call thee so again,
    he hath so planted his honours in their eyes and his actions in
    at the door to speak with him.
    How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
                                              Makes a pass at Cassio.
    As well to see the vessel that's come in
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  FIRST OFFICER. A messenger from the galleys.
    Within their chiefest temple I'll erect
    By this my issue's fail, and that gave to me
  Beat. Yea, my lord; I thank it, poor fool, it keeps on the windy
  YORK. Yet he looks like a king. Behold, his eye,

  Have I been patron to Antipholus,
    Thou counterfeit'st a bark, a sea, a wind:
    For Suffolk- he that can do all in all  
      Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,  
  Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee,
    reputed. It is the base (though bitter) disposition of Beatrice
  PRINCE JOHN. They know their duties.
    But purgatory, torture, hell itself.
    Can neither call it perfect day nor night.
  VALERIA. How do you both? You are manifest housekeepers. What are
  DEMETRIUS. Why, all these should be in the lantern; for all these
    potting. Your Dane, your German, and your swag-bellied Hollander-
  CHARMIAN. He is afear'd to come.
    For, whilst our pinnace anchors in the Downs,
    Give them thy fingers, me thy lips to kiss.
    So long in his unlucky Irish wars
    Or whether riding on the balls of mine
    I prithee, lady, go away with me.
  CLOTEN. Your lady's person; is she ready?
  Cap. So many guests invite as here are writ.
         If you be well pleas'd with this,
    And snarleth in the gentle eyes of peace;
    That she loves him, 'tis apt and of great credit.
  His word might bear my wealth at any time.
    Which now, two tender bedfellows for dust,
  MARIANA, neighbour and friend to the Widow
                     154
    Fetch me that flow'r, the herb I showed thee once.
    When we are old as you? When we shall hear
  Kent. Not so young, sir, to love a woman for singing, nor so old to  
  SOLDIERS. Content. 'Tis strange.                        Exeunt
    do.
    He'll be as full of quarrel and offense
    I trouble thee too much, but thou art willing.
  GLOUCESTER. The widow likes him not; she knits her brows.
ACT I. SCENE I.
    That I can find should merit any hate.
    Nerissa there her clerk. Lorenzo here
  Edg. As I stood here below, methought his eyes
  PLEBEIANS. Let's hear our tribune. Peace! Speak, speak, speak.
    Kills me to look on't. Let there be no honour
    But that is lost for being Richard's friend,
    Or any he, the proudest of thy sort.
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    oxen, and make you plough up the wars.
    Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends,
    Speak, man.
    Spur post, and get before him to the King,
    So minutes, hours, days, months, and years,
    Give me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll ha't.
LUCIANA. If thou art chang'd to aught, 'tis to an ass.

  Jul. And joy comes well in such a needy time.
  OTHELLO.                                Indeed!
    Between that love a woman can bear me
  ESCALUS. The Duke's in us; and we will hear you speak;
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    Whom we have apprehended in the fact,
    Jove shield your husband from his hounds to-day!  
    It is enough I may but call her mine.
  PROTEUS. Have patience, gentle Julia.
  KING. Fairly answer'd!

    None, I think, an it be the right husband and the right wife.
  PARIS. I spy.
    Mark him and write his speeches in their books,  
    Than fall and bruise to death. Alas! this gentleman,

    My noble steed, known to the camp, I give him,


  Wor. The Prince of Wales stepp'd forth before the King
Gloucestershire. SHALLOW'S house
    I cannot live to hear the news from England,
    Wherein we step after a stranger-march
    For law is strict, and war is nothing more.
    To new-store France with bastard warriors.
  Balth. Note this before my notes:
  Hero. Why then, your visor should be thatch'd.
  Kent. Yes, sir, but anger hath a privilege.
  So should the lines of life that life repair
    Are mortis'd and adjoin'd; which when it falls,
    England is safe, if true within itself?

    The untimely emptying of the happy throne,
  Pedro. You have it full, Benedick. We may guess by this what you
    He's almost slain, and Roderigo dead.
    Whose beard the silver hand of peace hath touch'd,
    Quite through the deeds of men. He loves no plays,  
    'The slaves are ours.' So do I answer you:
    Still in thy right hand carry gentle peace
  SECOND CITIZEN. I will hear Cassius and compare their reasons,
    If well-respected honour bid me on

    Till I have told this slander of his blood  
    When our sea-walled garden, the whole land,
    This world had air'd them. Hence I took a thought
    My tongue could never learn sweet smoothing word;

    Could not have made this peace.                       Exeunt
    Like a good parent, did beget of him
      But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
    O, let them keep it till thy sins be ripe,
    Bore many gentlemen, myself being one,
    But that our honours must not. What's to say?
    The last is for my men-they are the poorest,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. We arrest your word.
  ORLANDO. I will chide no breather in the world but myself, against

    A time that lovers' flights doth still conceal,
    Weigh them, it is as heavy; conjure with 'em,  
  King. Thou dost belie him, Percy, thou dost belie him!
    already, that seest not thy loss in transformation!
[Hautboys]
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Come to the Centaur; fetch our stuff from thence.
    Since you did leave it for my office, sir.

    Feign'd Fortune to be thron'd. The base o' th' mount
    Some necessaries that I needs must use;  
    And venture madly on a desperate mart.

    would spy out such a quarrel? Thy head is as full of quarrels as
    Whiles thy consuming canker eats his falsehood.  
    The love of wicked men converts to fear;
  KING. Now, fair one, does your business follow us?
    By every syllable a faithful verity.
  SON. Why do you look on us, and shake your head,
Enter KATHERINA and GRUMIO
    To see him kiss his hand, and how most sweetly 'a will swear!
    my court'- Hath this been proclaimed?
  IMOGEN. Will my lord say so?
  Alb. Haste thee for thy life.                    [Exit Edgar.]
  PISANIO. My lord your son drew on my master.
    As it hath much prevail'd on your condition,
  Fal. Shall I? O rare! By the Lord, I'll be a brave judge.
    lifted the Princess from the earth, and so locks her in embracing
    Wedded, with Theseus, an in jollity.

  LUCIO. No, my good lord;
    If I would sell my horse and buy twenty moe
    but that is all one. If Sir John Falstaff have committed
    Did I not bid thee meet me in the park
  PHEBE. I will not eat my word, now thou art mine;
  If I lose thee, my loss is my love's gain,

    But mere implorators of unholy suits,  
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    weather or our office.
    And, having gilt the ocean with his beams,
    Am something nearer.
                       Enter Mother.
    If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
  Ham. Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    To strive for that which resteth in my choice.  
    Unguided and unfriended, often prove

    thrive. What an exchange had this been without boot! What a boot
  BELARIUS. O, I am known
    These miseries are more than may be borne.
    mother's son, and rehearse your parts. Pyramus, you begin; when
  CHIRON. Go home, call for sweet water, wash thy hands.
    And every tale condemns me for a villain.
    had been alive at this hour, and your son here at home, more

    Banish'd the kingdom! Patience, is that letter
    Which is not yet perform'd me.
  DUKE. O, your desert speaks loud; and I should wrong it
    'Twould move me sooner.
    And thank the holy conclave for their loves.

                                              Exit with the body
    All things that you should use to do me wrong
    Of silver, each on one foot standing, nicely
  LONGAVILLE. I fear these stubborn lines lack power to move.  
  Jul. Ay me! what news? Why dost thou wring thy hands
                                     Exeunt CURIO and ATTENDANTS
  PAINTER. It is a pretty mocking of the life.
    Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
    grows to me! If thou get'st any leave of me, hang me; if thou

    Thou must be married to no man but me;
  KING. Stand up, good Canterbury;
  Glou. Our flesh and blood is grown so vile, my lord,
    And that she hath all courtly parts more exquisite
    But from deceit bred by necessity;
    The fabric of his folly, whose foundation
    we were quit here.
    flatter'd the people, who ne'er loved them; and there be many
    My faction if thou strengthen with thy friends,
  KING RICHARD. Unto the dignity and height of Fortune,
    You were as good to shoot against the wind.
                     Enter MARIANA veiled
    Against my near'st of life; and though I could
    That know love's grief by his complexion!  
    And harmful pity must be laid aside.
    will serve; for once we stood up about the corn, he himself stuck
  SLENDER. You'll not confess, you'll not confess.
    Nor check my courage for what they can give,
A hall in Leonato's house.
    But when to my good lord I prove untrue
  TRANIO. Sir, what are you that offer to beat my servant?
    And some are yet ungotten and unborn
     I'ld drive ye cackling home to Camelot.
  FIRST MUSICIAN. Whereby hangs a tale, sir?
    My boat sails freely, both with wind and stream.
  DUCHESS. Hadst thou groan'd for him
    A gift that heaven gives for him, which buys  
  KING. Would I were with him! He would always say-
  A back-friend, a shoulder-clapper, one that countermands
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    What we two nights have seen.
  IAGO. 'Tis but so, I warrant.                      Trumpets within.
  That th' unexperient gave the tempter place,
    the air, I am one that am nourish'd by my victuals, and would
    But, Clifford, tell me, didst thou never hear
      Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide;
    now, if thou wert a poet, I might have some hope thou didst
  CAPTAIN. 'Tis thought the King is dead; we will not stay.
    Our hands are full of business. Let's away.
    Nor hath Love's mind of any judgment taste;
    Health to your lordships!
over the stage, Cordelia with her Father in her hand, and exeunt.
    Possess'd with rumours, full of idle dreams.  
  COMINIUS. Well, on to th' market-place.
    You are my guest, Lavinia, and your friends.
    If thou retire, the Dauphin, well appointed,

    Out of hope of all but my share of the feast.           Exit
  FORD. Good mine host o' th' Garter, a word with you.
    In their nativity all truth appears.
    Arm me, audacity, from head to foot!
  LADY attending on the Queen
    Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.
  PAROLLES. Well, I shall be wiser.
  Then of thy beauty do I question make
  HELEN. Nay, this shall not hedge us out. We'll hear you sing,
    Did break i' th' wrenching.
    We shall try fortune in a second fight.              Exeunt.
    Be thus to them.
  Bard. Why, you are so fat, Sir John, that you must needs be out of  
    As or by oath remove or counsel shake
    for their better safety, to fly away by night.'
    To us in our election this day
    The want thereof makes thee abominable.
    Not mutinous in peace, yet bold in war;
  IAGO.                                  Why, go to then.  
  'Will you come home?' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he.
Alarum. Enter, fighting, Soldiers of both armies; then Brutus, young Cato,
  PETRUCHIO. O, slow-wing'd turtle, shall a buzzard take thee?
    Nothing but odds with England. To that end,
    I must have done no less with wit and safety.

  WARWICK. Some six miles off the Duke is with the soldiers;
    Assure thyself my love is buried.
    Chide me, dear stone, that I may say indeed
    That would divorce this terror from my heart';
    France, Kate, but in loving me you should love the friend of
    too. 'Better accommodated!' It is good; yea, indeed, is it. Good
    I mention'd a son o' th' King's, which Florizel
  GLOUCESTER. What! Threat you me with telling of the
    Here at my house, and at my proper cost.
  DUKE. My haste may not admit it;
    And, looking on it with lack-lustre eye,
  TITUS. Do you hear, sir?
  SECOND LORD. Boblibindo chicurmurco.
    In their assign'd and native dwelling-place.
    The water swell before a boist'rous storm.
    To her unguarded nest the weasel Scot

    He is within, with two right reverend fathers,
  But is profaned, if not lives in disgrace.
  OLIVER. When last the young Orlando parted from you,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  MENENIUS. Noble lady!
    need of such vanity. You are thought here to be the most  
  FALSTAFF. No abuse, Ned, i' th' world; honest Ned, none. I
    Than feed on cates and have him talk to me
    wall of any man or maid of Montague's.
    an honest gentleman; but Anne loves him not; for I know  
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
           Here shall he see

    man up like a bladder. There's villanous news abroad. Here was

    Or I will fetch thy rim out at thy throat
    To clothe mine age with angel-like perfection,
ACT IV. SCENE I.

    whence he was whipt for getting the shrieve's fool with child-a
  PAROLLES. Upon my knowledge, he is, and lousy.  
    Almost the sum he pays.
                                                      Stabs Roderigo.
     As to th' legitimate. Fine word- 'legitimate'!
  FOURTH CITIZEN. Read the will; we'll hear it, Antony.
                           Enter Roderigo.  
    them; if th' other two be brain'd like us, the state
    Hath nothing been but shapes and forms of slaughter.
  MRS. FORD. Heaven be my witness, you do, if you suspect
    But I protest I love to hear him lie,
    hast thou there under thy cloak, pretty Flaminius?
The park
    About the giving back the great seal to us,
    Is the King dead, the empire unpossess'd?
  Pol. What do you think of me?
    Till that the wearer's very means do ebb?
  Lear. Good morrow to you both.  
  Painting thy outward walls so costly gay?
    Of regular justice in your city's bounds,
  ISABELLA. Under your sentence?

    that honour of hers which you imagine so reserv'd.
    You that have turn'd off a first so noble wife
  Which rank of goodness would by ill be cured.
    As ample as myself.

    O that I were a mockery king of snow,
    In this close walk to satisfy myself
    Wilt thou resign them and lay down thy arms?
  TALBOT. Where is my other life? Mine own is gone.
    Cousin of Buckingham, and sage grave men,
  BERTRAM. My lord, this is a fond and desp'rate creature
  BOYET. Belonging to whom?
    Who shall reward you better for my life
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    thy grave.
  FLUELLEN. My Lord of Warwick, here is- praised be God for it!- a
  MONTGOMERY. What talk you of debating? In few words:
    Unless on you.
    Breathe out invectives 'gainst the officers.
    To kiss and talk to. I'll have the work ta'en out,
  CAIUS. Come at my heels, Jack Rugby.                    Exeunt
    She hath not yet forgot him; some more time
    And hold their manhoods cheap whiles any speaks
    Clean from the purpose of the things themselves.
  WOLSEY. There's fresher air, my lord,
    How durst you villains bring it from the dresser
Enter [Don] John and Borachio.
                       Re-enter PANTHINO
    other day, because I was no gentleman born. See you these  

    Upon Saint Davy's day.
  POET. Hail, worthy Timon!
    He meant to lay upon; and his own letter,
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Yet, for all this, say not that Percy's dead.
    Yet eyes this cunning want to grace their art,
    Upon a barren mountain, and still winter
    creature. Who is his companion now? He hath every month a new
    But if it were, doubt not her care should be
    But let my trial be mine own confession;
    But more of that anon. Take him aside.
  SAY. Great men have reaching hands. Oft have I struck
    Constable. How long have you been in this place of constable?
    sister. Angelo had never the purpose to corrupt her; only he hath

  TIMON. Your greatest want is, you want much of meat.
  THERSITES. Now they are clapper-clawing one another; I'll go look

  RODERIGO. Ay, and said nothing but what I protest intendment of
    Philip, good old Sir Robert's wife's eldest son.
    He rather means to lodge you in the field,
    His tedious measures with the unbated fire
    For I repent me that the Duke is slain.                 Exit
    between him and Benedick. The one is too like an image and says
  Marg. 'Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man.
  What's new to speak, what now to register,
    And I will make thee think thy swan a crow.
    From Perigouna, whom he ravished?
                          Enter PISTOL
    Did it to help thee to a better husband.
     Now marry in an instant.

  Friar. Come, come with me, and we will make short work;
    Benedick, my dear friend Leonato hath invited you all. I tell him

    three umpires in this matter, as I understand: that is,
    The Jove of power make me, most weak, most weak,
    Through Athens' gates have we devis'd to steal.
    Much feater than before. My brother's servants
      For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
    varld I shall leave behind.
    To entertain it so merrily with a fool.
    his service.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    for indeed I had the most of them out of prison. There's but a

    To tie thee to my strong correction.
    with a pernicious suitor. I thank God and my cold blood, I am of
  CELIA. O Lord, Lord! it is a hard matter for friends to meet; but  
  ROSALIND. But, to Orlando: did he leave him there,
    And whisper one another in the ear;
    I saw our party to their trenches driven,
    enough, and the other higher, is too flaming praise for a good

    The tide whereof is now. Good night, great Hector.
  And deep-brained sonnets that did amplify

    Pursue we him on knees; for I have dreamt


    To mingle faith with him!- Undone, undone!
  Fool. Truth's a dog must to kennel; he must be whipp'd out, when  

    What music is this?
  1. Car. I prithee, Tom, beat Cut's saddle, put a few flocks in the
    Grace pardon me. I was born to speak all mirth and no matter.
  LUCIUS
    present partner in this business, and lay aside the thoughts of
                                                 [Clock strikes]
  SEBASTIAN. Whiles we stood here securing your repose,
    And I, as sure as English Henry lives
                                           They set upon Banquo.
    Which I have sometime known.
  CADE. Marry, presently.
  PROVOST. Here in the prison, father,
    Inclin'd to this intelligence pronounce
  Friar. Hold, then. Go home, be merry, give consent
    Why dost thou stay?
    Indies, and I will trade to them both. Go, bear thou this
  PAGE. Well, let it not be doubted but he'll come,
    But this is not the best. Look, prithee, Charmian,
    I should make very forges of my cheeks,
    At thy great glory. Look not to the ground,
    I would they were in Afric both together;
    He was most princely: ever witness for him
  FRANCISCO. Sir, he may live;
    And am so near the lack of charity
  CORIOLANUS. And live you yet?  [To VALERIA]  O my sweet lady,
    That, had he Duncan's sons under his key-
    Shake my fell purpose nor keep peace between
    And feed on curds and whey, and suck the goat,
    I'ld not have sold her for it.
    Go, muster men. My counsel is my shield.
    From his true-meant design. Upon his place,
    game! Said I well?
    cannot fetch, but only carry; therefore is she better than a
                         Enter the Travellers.
  Glou. How fell you out? Say that.
    To pray for her? What, is she crying out?
    Some wanton charm upon this man and maid,
    Till the last step have brought me to my love;
    He likewise gives a frock or livery,
  SILVIUS. No, Corin, being old, thou canst not guess,
    disposition? One inch of delay more is a South Sea of discovery.
    That gave th' affront with them.
    toward him.
    I tell you that which you yourselves do know;
    Speak, brother, hast thou hurt thee with the fall?
     Whose virtue and obedience doth this instant

  Ros. To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
  VIOLA. It alone concerns your ear. I bring no overture of war, no  
    Hath done this deed on Caesar. For your part,
    Away, away! for he is coming hither.                  Exeunt
            What he his heart should make
    May bare the raven's eye! I lodge in fear;
  LORD BARDOLPH. My lord, I over-rode him on the way;
    That any harm should stain so fair a show!
    For by that loss I will not purchase them.
    Three-pil'd hyperboles, spruce affectation,
  And haply of our old acquaintance tell.  
  CLARENCE. Then this is mine opinion: that King Lewis

  KING PHILIP. Good reverend father, make my person yours,

  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Never greater,  
    But, ah, I will not! Yet I love thee well;
  BUCKINGHAM. Good morrow, and well met. How have ye done
  TRINCULO. I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-
                  Enter LONGAVILLE, with a paper
  I know thou canst, and therefore see thou do it.
  GAUNT. The sullen passage of thy weary steps
    Why, is not Oxford here another anchor?
    Our lack is nothing but our leave. Macbeth

    Now thou dost penance too. Look how they gaze!
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. A very reverent body; ay, such a one
    Was guilty of it. Farewell, worthy lord.
    In all respects by me; nay more, I doubt it not.
  IAGO. Why, there's no remedy. 'Tis the curse of service,
    A shrewd turn and he's your friend for ever.'
    Now will he interpret to her.
  WARWICK. Of one or both of us the time is come.
    His sons:
                     stumps the books which Lucius has let fall]
  Rom. Go to! I say you shall.
    Come, lady, come. Farewell, my friend.
    Or that I could forget what I have been!

  SERVINGMAN. My lord, I had forgot to tell your lordship,
    Into the chantry by; there, before him
  Ben. By my head, here come the Capulets.
  SECOND SOLDIER. Stand!
    Perhaps I will return immediately.
    One that still motions war and never peace,
    Has cluck'd thee to the wars, and safely home

     of the trumpet. He is bold in his defence.'
  VIOLA. So thou mayst say the king lies by a beggar, if a beggar
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  Who lead thee in their riot even there
    Hardly one subject.
    And thrice cried 'Courage, father! fight it out.'
  CLEOPATRA. Thou hast forspoke my being in these wars,
  ACHILLES. What's the quarrel?
    Blood and revenge are hammering in my head.
    O, let me think on Hastings, and be gone
    And he hath sent for thee. For the Queen,
    will entertain Bardolph; he shall draw, he shall tap; said I
  LUCENTIO. I would your duty were as foolish too;  
    Melodious birds sing madrigals-
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    Gone! They went hence so soon as they were born.
  Ros. The single and peculiar life is bound
    The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath,
        Re-enter the PRINCESS, ushered by BOYET; ROSALINE,
  SICINIUS. Why, what of that?
    Already smokes about the burning crest
  BUCKINGHAM. Who did guide-
    To shame the guise o' th' world, I will begin
    Methinks it should be now a huge eclipse  
  Laer. Where is my father?
    the ebon-coloured ink which here thou viewest, beholdest,
    Quicken with kissing. Had my lips that power,
    And pours down mischief. Austria's head lie there,
    Let them obey that knows not how to rule;
    Were nice and lucky, men did ransom lives
    Yet Aeolus would not be a murderer,
    Is not your father grown incapable

  MONTAGUE. But I have reasons strong and forcible.
    out.
  IAGO. She's the worse for all this.
  ANTONIO. O heavens themselves!
    the toothpick, which wear not now. Your date is better in your
    At length they came to th' broomstaff to me; I defied 'em
    The noble tribunes are the people's mouths,
    Recover'd is the town of Orleans.
    Write 'Lord have mercy on us' on those three;
    Have sunk the sea within the earth or ere
    I found her trimming up the diadem
           Enter the PAGE as a lady, with ATTENDANTS
                       Re-enter IMOGEN
    Put forth their sons to seek preferment out:
  SIWARD. Fare you well.
    Shall point on me and gild my banishment.
  GLOUCESTER. Your eyes drop millstones when fools' eyes fall
    Shall be crown'd in Brutus.
  SIMPLE. What sir?
    Lives in his eye; that close aspect of his
  To your notorious shame, I doubt it not.
  To weigh how once I suffered in your crime.
    How tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me-
  Who hast by waning grown, and therein show'st,
    By which his Grace must mete the lives of other,
  ANGUS. Who was the Thane lives yet,
    Advance your standards, draw your willing swords.
    The heavens speed thee in thine enterprise!
    Of whom you seem to have so tender care?
    Kings it makes gods, and meaner creatures kings.      Exeunt
  Like unshorn velvet, on that termless skin,
    And would afford my speechless vizard half.
    Hereafter, in a better world than this,
    Are motives of more fancy; and, in fine,
             And each several chamber bless,
  Dog. Come, bring away the plaintiffs. By this time our sexton hath
  LEPIDUS. Noble Antony,
    The law, with all his might to enforce it on,  
  DIOMEDES. Good night.  
    Yet these fix'd evils sit so fit in him
    Will thither straight, for willingness rids way;
    By our proceeding in hostility;
  Verg. 'Tis very true.
    And, toil'd with works of war, retir'd himself
    much is the good Duke deceiv'd in Angelo! If ever he return, and
    And hold their level with thy princely heart?
    If none of them have soul in such a kind,
    A sixth, a tenth, letting them thrive again
    Was wont to swell like round and orient pearls
and divers ATTENDANTS
    Of their disguising and pretended flight,  
  POLIXENES. O my most sacred lady,
    Issuing life-blood. But is it true, Salerio?
  SIR TOBY. Excellent! I smell a device.
    what guests you receive. Receive' says he 'no swaggering
    PRINCE HENRY, his son
    But, Kate, the prettiest Kate in Christendom,
  GRATIANO. O Jew! an upright judge, a learned judge!
    For thou shalt know this strong right hand of mine
  Leon. Hath the fellow any wit that told you this?
  CORIOLANUS. Is this done?
    O sweet Revenge, now do I come to thee;
  KEEPER. Fellow, give place; here is no longer stay.
                                        Exeunt all but APEMANTUS
    Thou hast not lov'd;  
  CONSTABLE. Hark how our steeds for present service neigh!
  FLEANCE, his son
        Sweet lovers love the spring.
  TITANIA, Queen of the Fairies
    Almost with ravish'd list'ning, could not find
ACT II. SCENE I.
    The wish would make else an unquiet house.

    hangs the verses on the trees wherein Rosalind is so admired?
  KATHERINA, the shrew
    she had been blest, she would never have loved the Moor. Blest
  AARON. Would you had hit it too!
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  MARGARET.  [Aside]  What though I be enthrall'd? He seems
    That our great grandsire, Edward, sick'd and died.
  Use power with power, and slay me not by art,
    As we greet modern friends withal; and say
    Than can our reasons. There's no man in the world
  Sher. Good night, my noble lord.
    Hath a distracted and most wretched being,
    alive? A fish: he smells like a fish; a very ancient and
Enter JOHN OF GAUNT with the DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER
  APEMANTUS. Thou art the cap of all the fools alive.
    barbarous. Do you not educate youth at the charge-house on the

    The world shall not be ransom for thy life.
    The tribunes cannot do't for shame; the people
  Kent. That from your first of difference and decay

  SALISBURY. This Edmund, in the reign of Bolingbroke,
                  Enter CASSANDRA, raving

    rain, and I will, like a true drunkard, utter all to thee.
    born, his addition shall be humble. Few words to fair faith:
    a musk-cat, that has fall'n into the unclean fishpond of her
  FALSTAFF. I have writ me here a letter to her; and here
    Were best to do it secretly alone.
     He's coming hither; now, i' th' night, i' th' haste,
    You hear my spell is lawful. Do not shun her
    To hedge me in. I am a soldier, I,
             Enter, below, the MAYOR and two ALDERMEN
  MARCIUS. Here. What's the matter?

    But I beseech your Grace, without offence-
  GENTLEMAN. One that gives out himself Prince Florizel,
    And, like a forester, the groves may tread
    With coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers;
    She shall be married to this noble earl.
    Those of your fact are so- so past all truth;
    It is the soldier's: I, by bargain, should
    I greet your honours from Andronicus-
    Have we not had a taste of his obedience-
    lethargy?
    the matter; therefore be o' good cheer, for truly I think you are
    And with each end of thy blue bow dost crown  
    Causeless have laid disgraces on my head,
    That there be women do abuse their husbands
    Succeeding his father Bolingbroke, did reign,

  BRUTUS. Pray, let's go.
    nutmegs, seven; race or two of ginger, but that I may beg; four

    Great Timon, noble, worthy, royal Timon!'
     I' th' sway of your own will. Is he array'd?
    the situations, look you, is both alike. There is a river in
    As, sick and blunted with community,
    And make distinct the very breach whereout
    Ah but those tears are pearl which thy love sheds,
    A vessel of our country richly fraught.
    Doth fancy any other but Lucentio?
    To Tenedos they come,
  BIANCA. He supp'd at my house; but I therefore shake not.
    Thou great defender of this Capitol,
  MENAS. These three world-sharers, these competitors,
                   Chi non ti vede, non ti pretia.
    Charge an honest woman with picking thy pocket? Why, thou
    For whom he now is banish'd- her own price

  DAUPHIN. 'Le chien est retourne a son propre vomissement, et la
    old fantastical Duke of dark corners had been at home, he had  
    unwilling and, for mine own part, have a desire to stay with my
    Honest Iago, that look'st dead with grieving,
    We are not to stay all together, but to come by him where he
  HASTINGS. Come, come, have with you. Wot you what, my
    Prick love for pricking, and you beat love down.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    'Small herbs have grace: great weeds do grow apace.'
    Did worthily perform; and I must use you
    Feeds on his wonder, keep, himself in clouds,

    But know not how to do it.
    As the dead carcasses of unburied men
  WOLSEY. Heav'n's peace be with him!
    Five have I slain to-day instead of him.
  CONSTABLE. Marry, he told me so himself; and he said he car'd not
  Robbing no old to dress his beauty new,

  Ben. I'll pay that doctrine, or else die in debt.      Exeunt.
    So fair, and fasten'd to an empery,
    More hath it merited- that let it have.  
  OTHELLO.                        It is too late.     He stifles her.
  So are those errors that in thee are seen,
    mild man; an honest man, look you, and soon dash'd. He is a

    Whose glory fills the world with loud report.
    Say that he thrive, as 'tis great like he will,
    Even of your metal, of your very blood;
  ARMADO. How canst thou part sadness and melancholy, my tender
ACT IV. SCENE I.
  MENENIUS. Only fair speech.
  O though I love what others do abhor,
  RICHARD. O, would he did! and so, perhaps, he doth.
    And I will strive with things impossible,
  LEONTES. We are tougher, brother,

SCENE IV.
  APEMANTUS. Myself.
    hand
    (God save the mark!) here on his manly breast.
  SHALLOW. Marry, have we, sir. Will you sit?
      Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
    Go with me to the King. 'Tis wonderful
    Take Hereford's rights away, and take from Time
    witness; but I would not for the wealth of Athens I had done't
  EXETER. Not here in presence.
    High dukes, great princes, barons, lords, and knights,
    How sweet a thing it is to wear a crown,
  SILENCE. Alas, a black ousel, cousin Shallow!
  Osr. Nothing neither way.
    Receive it from me. I speak not yet of proof.
    That I desire to hear her speak again,
    A soul as even as a calm. Pray think us
    He took my father grossly, full of bread,
    And now by law, as well as reverend age,
    the hearts of his subjects. I would fain see the man that has but  
  Claud. Leonato, stand I here?
    Your eld'st acquaintance cannot be three hours;
  THIRD SOLDIER. List, list!
  FORD. Hang her, witch!
    Shall flesh his tooth on every innocent.
  ROMAN. Banish'd, sir.
                    Enter CYMBELINE and QUEEN
ADRIANA. I cannot, nor I will not hold me still;
  Never believe though in my nature reigned,
  ALEXAS. Last thing he did, dear Queen,
    Feed on her damask cheek. She pin'd in thought;
  APEMANTUS. Thou weep'st to make them drink, Timon.
    Prove violence, in the which three great ones suffer,
  VINCENTIO, the Duke
                     138
    Our kinsman Gloucester is as innocent
    And one man in his time plays many parts,
    Chok'd the respect of likely peril fear'd;
    Being ordain'd his special governor;
    But as you shake off one to take another;
  CADE. My wife descended of the Lacies-

    Shall blow the horrid deed in every eye,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What is your will that I shall do with this?
     Here do you keep a hundred knights and squires;
    Derby?
  WARWICK. Nor now my scandal, Richard, dost thou hear;  
    such poor people, saying that ere long they should call me madam?
    uncleanly if courtiers were shepherds.
    I know not if the day be ours or no;
  VIOLA. I know of none,


    Yet when I saw it last it was besmear'd
    Will remain hers.
    Take these again; for to the noble mind

    With mistful eyes, or they will issue too.          [Alarum]
  Cap. Ha! let me see her. Out alas! she's cold,
    What say you now? What comfort have we now?
     And yet I know not how conceit may rob
    Which every noble Roman bears of you.

                    [A flourish with drums and trumpets. Exeunt]
     To his unnatural purpose, in fell motion
    Resign to death- it is not worth th' enjoying.
  KING. O, you have liv'd in desolation here,
  JULIA. The mean is drown'd with your unruly bass.
     This letter, madam, craves a speedy answer.
    In yonder tower, to overpeer the city,
    I do present you with a man of mine,
    I shall as famous be by this exploit.
  FALSTAFF. God save thee, my sweet boy!
    To rouse a Grecian that is true in love.
  Lear. Upon such sacrifices, my Cordelia,
  Friar. I will be brief, for my short date of breath
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  Ham. Being thus benetted round with villanies,
    Subtle as Sphinx; as sweet and musical
    I have done no harm. But I remember now
  SIMPLE. And what says she, I pray, sir?
    For they are thrifty honest men and such
    And learn me how to lose a winning match,
     friend.
    that can be can come between me and the full prospect of my
  FLORIZEL. O, that must be
    Thou canst not strike it thus to make it still.
  Since that my beauty cannot please his eye,
    He kiss'd- the last of many doubled kisses-
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    butcher's offal, and to be thrown in the Thames? Well, if
Belmont. PORTIA'S house
    I see thy grieved heart. Thy sad aspect
    Why, it contains no king?
    of bullocks at Stamford fair?
                Exeunt, above, DUCHESS and HUME, guarded; below,
  CLOWN. No, sir, I live by the church.
    A sun and moon, which kept their course and lighted
  SATURNINUS. Ay, but the citizens favour Lucius,
    [Aside] Here comes a flattering rascal; upon him
    Kisses the base ground with obedient breast?

    You'll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd?
    I would you rather had been silent. Please you
  CORIOLANUS. I' th' city of kites and crows.

    To think me as well a sister as a wife,
  VIOLA. But if she cannot love you, sir?
    When they were ready to set out for London, a man of
    The raven himself is hoarse
    Whither I go, nor reason whereabout.
    Is thought-sick at the act.

    By the simplicity of Venus' doves,
            Though thou the waters warp,
  CAMILLO. Sir, I will tell you;
  MENENIUS. 'Tis Aufidius,
  CASSIUS. Pindarus,
    When that shall vade, by verse distills your truth.
    At Tewksbury; despair, therefore, and die!
    grow dishonest.
    For folly that he wisely shows is fit;
    And for his safety there I'll best devise.              Exit

    I am the turned forth, be it known to you,
                 Enter young Osric, a courtier.
    If thou inclin'st that way, thou art a coward,
  PISANIO. But to win time
    The Duke of Exeter doth love thee well.
    Were publicly enthron'd; at the feet sat
    phrase of war, which they trick up with new-tuned oaths; and what

    But I am weaker than a woman's tear,

    That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
    What is your news?
    Slew three opposers; Tarquin's self he met,
    I spake unto this crown as having sense,
    Who like a good and hardy soldier fought
  LUCETTA. Peruse this paper, madam.
    And bless'd and grac'd indeed more than the King.
    O, God forgive my sins and pardon thee!               [Dies]
  PERDITA. Now Jove afford you cause!
    Ah, sirrah!  
    Hath won the greatest favour of the commons,
  BASSANIO. Go, Gratiano, run and overtake him;
    When first they put the name of King upon me

  EMILIA. Good morrow, good lieutenant. I am sorry
    For judgment only doth belong to Thee.

    Could best express how slow his soul sail'd on,
    In gait and countenance surely like a father.
  ACHILLES. My mind is troubled, like a fountain stirr'd;
    And nothing is at a like goodness still;
    Or any taint of vice whose strong corruption
    O friar, the damned use that word in hell;
  PAGE. Why, this is your own folly. Did not I tell you how
  ANTONIO. Do you not hear me speak?

  LORD HASTINGS
    And, could it work so much upon your shape
  CORIN. Nay, I hope.
   Was like, and had indeed against us pass'd
  ANTONIO. Fie, fie, Gratiano, where are all the rest?
    bountiful good lord and master?
    strange?
    And here I swear by all the Roman gods-
  Prince. Five year! by'r Lady, a long lease for the clinking of
  LEWIS. She is sad and passionate at your Highness' tent.
    I must be patient till the heavens look
  AJAX. Great Agamemnon comes to meet us here.
    Against the Welsh, himself and Harry Monmouth;
    And in the vapour of my glory smother'd.
  ANTONIO. Sweet lady, you have given me life and living;  
    Come, try upon yourselves what you have seen me.
    Thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end!
    Let him alone, or so many so minded,
    'Tween snow and fire as treason and my love.
  EGEUS. My lord, this is my daughter here asleep,

  SHALLOW. If it be confessed, it is not redressed; is not that  
    To his conveyance I assign my wife,
  POET. Sir,  
    That should applaud again. Pull't off, I say.
    On their abatement; that's not my desire.
  FAIRY. And here my mistress. Would that he were gone!
PINCH. Go bind this man, for he is frantic too.
    in the sea, hold, notwithstanding, their freshness and
    Knowing him is enough. On's bed of death
  To side this title is impanelled
    Lament we may, but not revenge thee dead.
  FIRST GUARD. Not I.
    grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance
  ULYSSES. Things small as nothing, for request's sake only,
  PROTEUS. Here is my hand for my true constancy;
    fetch his necessaries ashore. Farewell.

    Yea, and of this our life; swearing that we
ANGELO. See where they come; we will behold his death.
    In few, his death- whose spirit lent a fire
    And, till so much blood thither come again,
    no more ado but took all their seven points in my target, thus.
  TIMON. Now, thieves?
  ANGELO. Admit no other way to save his life,
    Your Highness should deliver up your crown.
    Yet fruits that blossom first will first be ripe.
  GLOUCESTER. Cardinal, I'll be no breaker of the law;

    deed to have them at all, into their estimation and report; but
               'Was this fair face the cause' quoth she
  BASSANIO. Why dost thou whet thy knife so earnestly?
    That I should neither sell, nor give, nor lose it.
    But not another sin upon my head
    Does pay thy labour richly. Go.                 Exit MARDIAN
  ROSS. It stands your Grace upon to do him right.
  Might I not then say 'Now I love you best,'
    I have from their confines call'd to enact
    Lovel and Ratcliff, look that it be done.
    But flowers distilled though they with winter meet,
  Lord. It is, my lord.
  COUNTESS. Haste you again.                              Exeunt
    'Tis strange.
  SECOND WITCH. When the hurlyburly's done,
    For even her folly help'd her to an heir.
    We two have sworn shall come.  
    I am sure it was your wife's- did I today
    swears she's a witch, forbade her my house, and hath
  A bliss in proof and proved, a very woe,
    And from her fair and unpolluted flesh  
    And at the port expect you.
  CHIRON. Was never Scythia half so barbarous!

  LEWIS. Queen Margaret, Prince Edward, and Oxford,  
    Into the hands of justice.' You did commit me;
  OTHELLO. She was false as water.
  GLOUCESTER. Lord Bishop, set the crown upon his head.
  GREMIO. Why, he's a devil, a devil, a very fiend.

    It shall be eas'd, if France can yield relief.
    The town might fall in fright. He, swift of foot,

    Where is my lady's lord, where's Romeo?
  BASTARD. Here ent'red Pucelle and her practisants;
    My heart laments that virtue cannot live
    I will have more, or scold it out of him.
    Like one of two contending in a prize,
    For all the rest is held at such a rate
    of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the
    Why dost thou look so sadly on my son?
    And hang me up in chains!
    Whose loves I may not drop, but wail his fall
    This squash, this gentleman. Mine honest friend,
    Possess them not with fear! Take from them now
  Increasing store with loss, and loss with store.
  SECOND MESSENGER. Good news, good news! The ladies have prevail'd,
    are all lies: men have died from time to time, and worms have
  GRATIANO. We have not made good preparation.
    'We blush that thou shouldst choose; but, be refused,
    Now sir, the sound that tells what hour it is
    For I will make him tell the tale anew,
                                                         Exeunt.
  LAFEU. O, I know him well. Ay, sir; he, sir, 's a good workman, a
  LYSANDER. You have her father's love, Demetrius;
    The flattering index of a direful pageant,
     justly; swear not; commit not with man's sworn spouse; set not
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
   Familiar as his garter; that, when he speaks,
    me by will but poor a thousand crowns, and, as thou say'st,
    And fled he is upon this villany.
  PERDITA. And give me leave,
    Malevolent to you In all aspects,
    Are you fast married? Be assured of this,
    This get I by his death. Ay me, unhappy!
    And quicken his embraced heaviness
  SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  It shall be so, disdain they ne'er so much.
                                                    Exit FRANCIS
  HECTOR. Be gone, I say. The gods have heard me swear.
    Where your brave father breath'd his latest gasp,
  In many's looks, the false heart's history
The DUKE'S palace
  BASTARD. Methinks your looks are sad, your cheer appall'd.
    And think we think ourselves unsatisfied,
  BEROWNE. We number nothing that we spend for you;
    Look here, and at thy sovereign leisure read
    Till we do hear from them.

    to-day. You'll remember your brother's excuse?

    Go with me like good angels to my end;
              Or we poor ghosts will cry
    My thoughts are minutes; and with sighs they jar
  HENRY, surnamed BOLINGBROKE, Duke of Hereford, son of
  MURTHERER. My lord, his throat is cut; that I did for him.
    Which is infallible, to England's crown.
    And think no more of this night's accidents
  But we, that know what 'tis to fast and pray,
    This unhair'd sauciness and boyish troops,
    Ay me, for pity! What a dream was here!

    And make him weigh with her.
  HORTENSIO. I promis'd we would be contributors  

    Many a nobleman lies stark and stiff
  THIRD WITCH. All hail, Macbeth, that shalt be King hereafter!
    And that thou oft provok'st; yet grossly fear'st
    And sent me over by Berkeley, to discover  

             Trip away; make no stay;
    A gross fat man.
  BRUTUS. O, name him not; let us not break with him,
    Upon thee in the letter. Prithee, be content;
    Of hurlyburly innovation.
    The 'solus' in thy most mervailous face;
    But soon that war had end, and the time's state
  FORD. None, I protest; but I'll give you a pottle of burnt
     And dotage terms so.
  ROSALIND. Nay, you must call me Rosalind. Come, sister, will you
  MARGARET. I am unworthy to be Henry's wife.
    To mount aloft with thy imperial mistress,
    That hath contriv'd this woeful tragedy!
  ARVIRAGUS. Ay, my good lord.
    In my opinion, ought to be prevented.
  RUTLAND. Then let my father's blood open it again:
  Reg. O, sir, you are old!
     Thy heinous, manifest, and many treasons,
  CORIOLANUS. Aufidius, and you Volsces, mark; for we'll
    alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like thieves
  Leon. Art thou the slave that with thy breath hast kill'd


ACT IV. Scene I.
    To hear the lamentations of poor Anne,
    Making the wind my post-horse, still unfold
                               SCENE 2.
  PORTIA. Inquire the Jew's house out, give him this deed,
    For you have seen him open 't. Read o'er this;
  CLEOPATRA. That I might sleep out this great gap of time
    Are you more stubborn-hard than hammer'd iron?
    For then she never looks upon her lure.
    That meat was made for mouths, that the gods sent not
  ENOBARBUS. Drink thou; increase the reels.
  GOWER. How now, Captain Fluellen! Come you from the bridge?
    Who with mine eyes, never since at ebb, beheld
                      [ARIEL plays the tune on a tabor and pipe]


    And turn again unto the warlike French.
    From over-credulous haste. But God above
  POLIXENES. I do believe thee:
    As smiles upon the forehead of this action
  LONGAVILLE. I know the reason, lady, why you ask.
    But must not break my back to heal his finger.
    Take up those cords. Poor ropes, you are beguil'd,
    And does he think so backwardly of me now
  SIWARD. This way, my lord; the castle's gently render'd.
    And for my sister, and her princely sons,
    Let every man be master of his time
Enter AARON alone, with a bag of gold
    As it hath us'd to do- that I have found  
  WOLSEY. Stand forth, and with bold spirit relate what you,
    And give their fasting horses provender,
    My father and my grandfather were kings;

    His viands sparkling in a golden cup,
  OLIVIA. O, by your leave, I pray you:
    In that dead time when Gloucester's death was plotted
    father to break with him about it. The ladies follow her and but  
    occasion so many talents.
The forest
  SECOND WATCHMAN. Stay, or thou diest.
  MENENIUS. 'Tis true;
    But my heart bleeds; and most accurs'd am I
    Before you serve.
    God b'uy, my lord; we came but to tell you

    time, which we may name tough.
    horse, you rogues! give me my horse and be hang'd!
    The purity of his.
     Till time and I think meet.
  DOLL. I pray thee, Jack, be quiet; the rascal's gone. Ah, you  

    and the sobriety of it, and the modesty of it, to be otherwise.
    That no supporter but the huge firm earth
    Should the approach of this wild river break,
    That which appears in proper nakedness?
  OTHELLO.                      What is the matter here?
  ISABELLA. Gentle my lord, turn back.
  AGRIPPA. Good fortune, worthy soldier, and farewell.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. My daughter's mother thinks it with her
    In dear employment. Therefore hence, be gone.  
  PISTOL. What! shall we have incision? Shall we imbrue?
  SHALLOW. Come on, come on, come on; give me your hand, sir; give me
    Take thou the fee, and tell him what I say;
  PORTIA. Yes, bring me word, boy, if thy lord look well,
    That I will dazzle all the eyes of France,
  FIRST CITIZEN. He's one honest enough; would all the rest were so!
    Although I know you'll swear, terribly swear,
    You Dukes of Orleans, Bourbon, and of Berri,

    No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day
  SECOND BANDIT. True; for he bears it not about him. 'Tis hid.
    The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
    All pomp and majesty I do forswear;
    Timon in this should pay more than he owes;
    As are our wretches fett'red in our prisons;  
    Fears, and despairs-and all these for his marriage;  
  DIOMEDES. You must prepare to fight without Achilles.
    In your fine frame hath love no quality?
    Drive them from Orleans, and be immortaliz'd.
    And threefold vengeance tend upon your steps!  
    I lodge my wife; I'll go in couples with her;
  ANTIGONUS. I will, my lord.
      My vow was earthly, thou a heavenly love;
  YORK. Then, Buckingham, I do dismiss my pow'rs.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  To th' orbed earth; sometimes they do extend
  FIRST BANDIT. We cannot live on grass, on berries, water,
    Lives in this bosom, dearly cherished.
  TAILOR.  [Reads]  'With a trunk sleeve'-
    Be large in mirth; anon we'll drink a measure
  SPEED. Ever since you lov'd her.
    And on it said a century of prayers,  
    Cannot contain their urine; for affection,
    I'll warrant you, when I say so, she looks as pale as any clout
    bonnet; then if ever thou dar'st acknowledge it, I will make it
  Hot. My cousin Vernon! welcome, by my soul.
  ISABELLA. The image of it gives me content already; and I trust it
    We scorn her most when most she offers blows.         Exeunt
  TAMORA. My worthy lord, if ever Tamora  
  KING. What present hast thou there?
    Yet do thy worst old Time: despite thy wrong,
    more of thy old body than I have done. Will they yet look
  THYREUS. He knows that you embrace not Antony
    I will deliver or else lie for you.
  KING. What says he to your daughter? Have you spoke?
    To shrink mine arm up like a wither'd shrub
  OFFICER.  [Reads]  'Hermione is chaste; Polixenes blameless;
  Bene. Thou and I are too wise to woo peaceably.
    Which they would have the profferer construe 'Ay.'  
    The marigold, that goes to bed wi' th' sun,
        Enter YORK, with trumpet and many soldiers. A
    Avaunt, you cullions!                 [Driving them forward]
    As if I did but only chew his name,
                         Enter TRAVERS
    To hinder our beginnings; we doubt not now
  KING. You shall be welcome, madam, to my court.
    Should have ta'en vengeance on my faults, I never
    My wayward husband hath a hundred times
    concerning his imprisonment was rather-
    Note notes, forsooth, and nothing!                  [Music.]
  Enjoyed no sooner but despised straight,
  QUEEN KATHARINE. If I know you well,
    Lament till I am lost.
    And now baits me! This brat is none of mine;  
  KING. Thy own wish wish I thee in every place.
  WIDOW. It is reported that he has taken their great'st commander;
    And make bold power look pale- they threw their caps

    Or ne'er return again into my sight.
  Fal. Hear ye, Yedward: if I tarry at home and go not, I'll hang you
  Ham. Ecstasy?
  Love's eye is not so true as all men's: no,
  SERGEANT. Sir,
    I am subdued. Would the cook were o' my mind! Shall we go prove
    For general sovereignty; and that he will'd me
  DUMAIN. But what to me, my love? but what to me?

    And say you do't by our permission,
  LENNOX. The night has been unruly. Where we lay,

    Stoop'd his anointed head as low as death.
  VIOLA. I will return again into the house and desire some conduct
  SECOND LORD. Oscorbidulchos volivorco.
    In limited professions. Rascal thieves,
  Bene. This can be no trick. The conference was sadly borne; they

    When English measure backward their own ground
    Transformed Timon to our city's love
  HOSTESS. By my troth, Captain, these are very bitter words.
                                Exeunt FALSTAFF and the JUSTICES

    You lack a man's heart.
                     59
  MOULDY. I was prick'd well enough before, an you could have let me
    With all prerogative. Hence his ambition growing-
  CADE. Let me alone. Dost thou use to write thy name, or hast thou a
    To hear and see her plaints, her brinish tears.
    sad a passage 'tis!-whose skill was almost as great as his
    'Tis thine they give away, and not their own.
    That brings me food to make misfortune live?
    Divert and crack, rend and deracinate,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I came from Corinth, my most gracious lord.
    Let me have speech with you. Come, my dear love,
    From such fell serpents as false Suffolk is;  
    Confound them by some course, and come to me,
  MORTIMER. Thou dost then wrong me, as that slaughterer
  Pol. [behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
  Rom. With love's light wings did I o'erperch these walls;
Enter Desdemona, Cassio, and Emilia.
  From this vile world with vilest worms to dwell:
  BEROWNE. Now, in thy likeness, one more fool appear!
    I am forsworn on mere necessity.
  QUINTUS. If it be dark, how dost thou know 'tis he?
     Age is unnecessary. On my knees I beg
    Give me my robe, for I will go.
    But unto thee, Alencon, and the rest.
  LUCIO. Believe me, this may be; he promis'd to meet me two hours
  CADE. Come then, let's go fight with them. But first go and set
    Than this of Juliet and her Romeo.
    The wide world's Emperor, do I consecrate
    He shall have nothing but the penalty.
  To be forbod the sweets that seems so good
    Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed;
    Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
  MRS. FORD. My Maid's aunt, the fat woman of Brainford, has

    I am not barren to bring forth complaints.
    not to fear, not to tremble. My life for yours! If you think I
    And Somerset another goodly mast?

    To hasten on his expedition.
    I never was nor never will be false.
  SECOND PAGE. We are for you; sit i' th' middle.
    And they it were that ravished our sister.
    Ratcliff!
     That can make vile things precious. Come, your hovel.

SCENE II.
    Nor wear the diadem upon his head,
  BOTTOM. Not a whit; I have a device to make all well. Write me a
  ANTONY. Eros,
  LUCIO. With child, perhaps?
    How far that little candle throws his beams!
    Within this hour bring me word 'tis done,
  FALSTAFF. Come, sir, which men shall I have?
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    to put you so oft upon't. Are there not men in your ward
    Against your peace. Love doth approach disguis'd,
  BUCKINGHAM.  [Aside]  And supper too, although thou
    With customary compliment, when he,
  DUKE OF VENICE. How shalt thou hope for mercy, rend'ring none?
    Pray you a word.                       [They converse apart]
  SIR TOBY BELCH, uncle of Olivia
               Why then let a soldier drink."
  Leon. As freely, son, as God did give her me.
  LEWIS. What's he approacheth boldly to our presence?
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Sir boy, let me see your archery;
  Abr. No better.
    Come you hither to me, Master Tapster; what's your name, Master
                     Enter BUCKINGHAM and DERBY
    fellows of infinite tongue, that can rhyme themselves into
    a sleeve-less errand. A th' t'other side, the policy of those
    And see him seated in the regal throne.               Exeunt
    And never after to inherit it.
    a farmer that hanged himself on th' expectation of plenty. Come
  Jul. Who is't that calls? It is my lady mother.
    But from Lord Angelo by special charge.
     I am now from home, and out of that provision  
    The bloody office of his timeless end.
  LUCIUS. Sir, March is wasted fifteen days.
  HERMIA. What love could press Lysander from my side?
    And mark how well the sequel hangs together:
    Are pleas'd to breed out your inheritors.
    Return him here again. Go with him, Provost.
     Yet, poor old heart, he holp the heavens to rain.
    Plucking the entrails of an offering forth,

    My love can give no place, bide no denay.             Exeunt
    The world may read in me; my body's mark'd
    That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
    Your deeds of war, and all our counsel die?
    Too ceremonious and traditional.
    A visor for a visor! What care I
  SPEED. Why?
    Thinking this voice an armed Englishman-
  ISIDORE'S SERVANT. A plague upon him, dog!

  LYSANDER. Amen, amen, to that fair prayer say I;
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
by William Shakespeare
    How that ambitious Constance would not cease
  FIRST SOLDIER. Fool-hardiness; not I.
    Have in these parts from morn till even fought,
    England ne'er lost a king of so much worth.
  GREMIO. First, as you know, my house within the city
    That quickens Nilus' slime, I go from hence
    Because I know you well and love you well,
KING RICHARD III
  FIRST SERVING-MAN. Villains, answer you so the Lord
    As she had studied to misuse me so.
    Be playfellows to keep you company!
    well?
  Mer. A sail, a sail!
    as I found it, and there an end.               Exit. Sound alarum
    I fear I wrong the honorable men
  Ant. Yet bend not all the harm upon yourself.
  Ben. Groan? Why, no;
    French council; and they should sooner persuade Henry of England
    her.
    think you think I love you.
    That lies enclosed in this trunk which you
    Thou mov'st no less with thy complaining than
    Pourest in the open ulcer of my heart-

  AUMERLE. I brought high Hereford, if you call him so,
  ARMADO. That is all one, my fair, sweet, honey monarch; for, I
    To be received plain, I'll speak more gross-
    I am sick still; heart-sick. Pisanio,
  YORK. Curse, miscreant, when thou comest to the stake.  
    all ladies, only you excepted; and I would I could find in my
    More than Octavius and Mark Antony
    If she were by to hear you make the offer.
    what's the matter?
    commend my yellow stockings of late, she did praise my leg being  
    than hairs, and more wealth than faults.'
    If all else fail, myself have power to die.            Exit.
    Can never be so equal that your love
ADRIANA. With what persuasion did he tempt thy love?
  SLENDER. I went to her in white and cried 'mum' and she
  ACHILLES. Thou must be my ambassador to him, Thersites.
  NERISSA. 'Tis well you offer it behind her back;
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  ROBIN.  [Within]  Mistress Ford, Mistress Ford! here's
    Which since have steaded much; so, of his gentleness,
  CYMBELINE. O thou vile one!


    That numberless upon me stuck, as leaves

  It is my love that keeps mine eye awake,
    No Rome of safety for Octavius yet;
    Come, come, return; return, thou wandering lord;
    Therefore these stops of thine fright me the more;
  Clown. What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the

    Your purse is not hot enough to purchase your spice. I'll be with
  ANTIGONUS. I did not, sir.
    Clamor'd the livelong night. Some say the earth
    Worthy his goodness. What might I have been,
  Gent. O, my good lord, the Duke of Cornwall 's dead,
    great world.
  DUKE. But hear you-
    He's not prepar'd for death. Even for our kitchens

    Being lass-lorn; thy pole-clipt vineyard;
  AUSTRIA. Do so, King Philip; hang no more in doubt.
  Pedro. I will not think it.
    To th' old dam treason: Charles the Emperor,  
    None should come at him.
    Which, like the meteors of a troubled heaven,
    Trinculo?
    But this cannot continue.
    Had never like executor. I forget;
    Fie, treacherous hue, that will betray with blushing
    Of all perfections that a man may owe,
    Warwick, and Huntington, go with the King;
    If ever any malice in your heart
                                             [Offering him food]  
    Till you have heard me in my true complaint,
          The man that makes his toe
    My back o' t' other side,- ah, my back, my back!
    Hath hither brought.
  Serv. Up.
    Holds hand with any princess of the world.
    Beyond the mark of others; our then Dictator,
    Fear not; he bears an honourable mind,
    Whereof you are a well-deserving pillar,
    religiously; and, as a certain father saith-
  And show'd me silks that he had bought for me,
  Which husbandry in honour might uphold,
    But I shall live, my lord, to give them thanks
    heaping friendships. Of that fatal country Sicilia, prithee,
     Whoop, Jug, I love thee!
    Shall nothing benefit your knowledge, nor
  Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March.

      Cold indeed, and labour lost,

    Till bones and flesh and sinews fall away,
ADRIANA. Go bear him hence. Sister, go you with me.
    To hear her prayer for them, as now for us!

  KING HENRY. Ay, as the rocks cheer them that fear their wreck-
    And wretched fools' secrets heedfully o'er-eye.
  Queen. Did he receive you well?
  GLOUCESTER. A wise stout captain, and soon persuaded!
  VOLUMNIA. Prithee now,
    For goodness dare not check thee. Wear thou thy wrongs;
  LORENZO. Goodly Lord, what a wit-snapper are you! Then bid them


    which is nice; nor the lover's, which is all these; but it is a
    From whence 'tis nourish'd. The fire i' th' flint
     Our sister speaks of. Come, bring away the stocks!
    Look to it, lords; let not his smoothing words
  SEBASTIAN. What, art thou waking?
                      Re-enter ULYSSES
    And he that stands upon a slipp'ry place

  SOOTHSAYER. Caesar!
    You throw a strange regard upon me, and by that
    It is your fault that I have lov'd Posthumus.

                                                [Hides the gold]
    Of sallies and retires, of trenches, tent,
    potatoes; let it thunder to the tune of Greensleeves, hail
  No bitterness that I will bitter think,
    And worship this dull fool!

    I do remember well where I should be,
    By most mechanical and dirty hand.
  CAIUS. Peace-a your tongue. Speak-a your tale.
  SIR TOBY. Come, come, I'll go burn some sack; 'tis too late to go
    Incite them to quick motion; for I must
     To lead him where he would. His roguish madness
    And sheathe for lack of sport. Let us but blow on them,
  PISTOL. Thou art the Mars of malcontents; I second thee;
  FIRST LORD. With all my heart, my lord.                 Exeunt
    Pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war!
  RICHARD. Nay, if thou be that princely eagle's bird,
    affords.                         Exeunt servants, MAYOR, &C.
    and villainous contriver against me his natural brother.

    She was a wight, if ever such wight were-
    Make gallant show and promise of their mettle;
  WARWICK. What plain proceedings is more plain than this?
    Your angry choler on your enemies.
    There is a kind of character in thy life
    You thus have publish'd me! Gentle my lord,
    In such a love so vile a lout as he.
  To make me tongue-tied speaking of your fame.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries;
  Lear. The bow is bent and drawn; make from the shaft.
    My heart and hands thou hast at once subdu'd.
    So well as Brutus living, but will follow
    His country's peace.
                        Enter SCARUS
    So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed.
  Hero. My cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua.
    Would she had never given you leave to come!
    Inherit at my house. Hear all, all see,
  When in disgrace with Fortune and men's eyes,

       Enter BASSANIO, ANTONIO, GRATIANO, and their followers
  A Clown in service to Othello
    I speak of peace while covert emnity,
    Is the immediate jewel of their souls.
  AMIENS. More at your request than to please myself.
  LUCIO. My lord, most villainously; believe it.
    O that estates, degrees, and offices,
    When I forget to send to Antony
  CRESSIDA. I prithee, do not hold me to mine oath;
    shall see anon how the murtherer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
    The masters of some merchant, and the merchant,
  PROVOST. Here is the head; I'll carry it myself.
    In making question of my uttermost
    LUCILIUS
     Into a madman's rags, t' assume a semblance
                     half ready and half unready
  IMOGEN. [Awaking] Yes, sir, to Milford Haven. Which is the way?
  BASSANIO.. There's more depends on this than on the value.
    Tell him the daughter of the King of France,

  LEONTES. Make that thy question, and go rot!
    To tell the secrets of my prison house,
    For I will henceforth be no more unconstant.
SCENE III.
    of order.
    And to such wondrous doing brought his horse
  SECOND LORD. Well, my lord.                             Exeunt
    And I in better state than e'er I was.
  SATURNINUS. Surpris'd! By whom?

    With the arm'd rest, courtiers of beauteous freedom,
    Now, neighbour confines, purge you of your scum.
  AENEAS. We know each other well.
    By heaven, I will tear thee joint by joint
  The Ghost of Caesar
    Were thinly scattered, to make up a show.
    Screw'd to my memory? She hath been reading late
    Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
    His Highness' pleasure is to talk with him.
    Runs in your veins; and my thrice-puissant liege
    Prithee, man, look cheerly. These old fellows
    altogether slight.

  WARWICK. Talk not of France, sith thou hast lost it all.
     Man's life is cheap as beast's. Thou art a lady:
  And these two Dromios, one in semblance-
  PAROLLES. That, having this obtain'd, you presently
    [To LONGAVILLE] You would for paradise break faith and troth;

    To use so rude behaviour. Go to, kneel.
    This devil here shall be my substitute;

    We come to speak with him. Ulysses, enter you.
    throat, if you say I am any other than an honest man.  
  EVANS. Go your ways, and ask of Doctor Caius' house which
    have ere now, sir, been better known to you, when I have held
  OXFORD. Oxford, Oxford, for Lancaster!
    How much ye would?

    Suffolk, the new-made duke that rules the roast,
    Be not her maid, since she is envious.
    continuer. But keep your way, a God's name! I have done.
  Getrude, Queen of Denmark, mother to Hamlet.
    To know the cause of your abrupt departure.
                   In a trice,
Enter VALENTINE
    I hope it is not so low with him as he made it seem in the trial
    I was duller than a great thaw; huddling jest upon jest with such  
  PAGE. I warrant you, he's the man should fight with him.
  DOLABELLA. O sir, you are too sure an augurer:
    To prove, by wit, worth in simplicity.
     That it intends to do? My Lord of Burgundy,

    And let the angel whom thou still hast served
    So, when this loose behaviour I throw off  
    With Roger Bolingbroke, the conjurer?
    The angry spot doth glow on Caesar's brow,  
    I knew him, and I know him; so I leave him
    Or but allay the fire of passion.
  LAUNCELOT. I beseech you, sir, go; my young master doth expect your
  Doug. Defy him by the Lord Of Westmoreland.
    Your care is gain of care, by new care won.
  Fal. Marry, then, sweet wag, when thou art king, let not us that
    Even to the dullest peasant in his camp-
  GONZALO. Here is everything advantageous to life.
  Cor. O thou good Kent, how shall I live and work
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Good angels keep it from us!
    sack; and fear not, neighbour, you shall do well enough.
    Maliciously like poison. But I cannot
    Till then, adieu, and keep this holy kiss.             Exit.
    Which seems a little fouler than it is,
    The proffered means of succour and redress.
    noted he is of late much retired from court, and is less frequent
    station; here's no place for you. Pray you avoid. Come.
    attempt I vow.
    And so let's leave her to her silent walks.
          If my cap would buy a halter.
    'In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'
     If you have poison for me, I will drink it.
    May do a noble deed! He brings me liberty.
  KING JOHN. Coz, farewell.
  EDWARD. 'Tis wondrous strange, the like yet never heard of.
    Let us, like merchants, show our foulest wares
  THURIO. Sir Valentine, I care not for her, I;
  FORD. Buck? I would I could wash myself of the buck!
    If you'll be patient, I'll no more be mad;
    Thou know'st that Banquo and his Fleance lives.

    That thou for truth giv'st out are landed here?  
    But then Aeneas bare a living load,
    We say befits the hour.
    Only for bearing burdens, and sore blows
  Friar. Benedicite!
    How hard it is for women to keep counsel!
    cover'd.
  HORTENSIO. Sirrah, I will not bear these braves of thine.
  PROTEUS. Run, boy, run, run, seek him out.
  QUEEN MARGARET. So part we sadly in this troublous world,
    This is his second fit; he had one yesterday.
    And of our Athens, thine and ours, to take
    The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.
  AARON. Ay, that I had not done a thousand more.
      Then my account I well may give
                                              Exit with the body
  FIRST CITIZEN. He has our voices, sir.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Sconce, call you it? So you would
    thieves; notwithstanding, I fear not my ring.
    After the shepherd that complain'd of love,
    Of middle summer, and I think they are given
    I stand dishonour'd that have gone about
    These drums! these trumpets, flutes! what!
    Which, cousin, you shall bear to comfort him

    then Sir Dagonet in Arthur's show- there was a little quiver
    And sail so expeditious that shall catch
    Spur them to ruthful work, rein them from ruth!

    To bid his young son welcome to his grave?
    He knew me as a wife. As this is true,
    But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?
    But kill not all together.
    Sometime the flood prevails, and then the wind;
  KING RICHARD. Ay, hand from hand, my love, and heart from heart.
    When fitness calls them on, and know, by measure
  GUIDERIUS. Come on, then, and remove him.
    But on his knees at meditation;
    Or pack to their old playfellows. There, I take it,
    The Duke hath put on a religious life,
  KING EDWARD. 'Tis even so; yet you are Warwick still.
    Good night.  
    And this worm-eaten hold of ragged stone,
  Ham. But where was this?
    Too good to be so, and too bad to live,
    He be approv'd in practice culpable.
    This hand was made to handle nought but gold.
  Steal from his figure, and no pace perceived,
  KING RICHARD. Ay, if the devil tempt you to do good.
  PERDITA. Forewarn him that he use no scurrilous words in's tunes.
    That I have given no answer all this while;
    To yield what passes here.
    Have you read o'er the letters that I sent you?

  KING HENRY. Where wert thou born?
  Gent. Help, help! O, help!
    To seek you at your house. Well, I will hie
    No, Warwick, no; while life upholds this arm,
  TIMON. Right welcome, sir!
  NORFOLK. Then, that in all you writ to Rome, or else
    To draw him from his holy exercise.
    I stole into a neighbour thicket by,

    May turn the tide of fearful faction
    As were our England in reversion his,
  TITUS. Traitors, avaunt! Where is the Emperor's guard?
    I love thee not a jar o' th' clock behind
  Edg. Child Rowland to the dark tower came;
    Was as another nature, dumb; outwent her,

    And part your mingled colours once again,
  KING PHILIP. A wonder, lady! Lo, upon thy wish,
    Thou art no soldier.
    Take but possession of her with a touch-
    Her sighs will make a batt'ry in his breast;
    By means whereof the towns each day revolted.
    of wise people; for indeed there is no goodness in the worm.
    Safer than mine own two, more dear. I have so:
    Tell him it was a hand that warded him
    What heaven hath given him-let some graver eye
    Please you command, a thousand times as much;
  DUKE SENIOR. If that you were the good Sir Rowland's son,
    'Tis gone.
    Or shall we play the wantons with our woes  
    If I did stay to look on his intents.
  ACHILLES. The dragon wing of night o'erspreads the earth
  KING RICHARD. Ay, no; no, ay; for I must nothing be;
                     1
  KATHERINA. A witty mother! witless else her son.
  CYMBELINE. O, what am I?
    Were it the mistress court of mighty Europe;
    How much more is his life in value with him!
  OTHELLO. You have seen nothing, then?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Dost thou not know?
  Shall reasons find of settled gravity;
  SECOND LADY. She is spread of late
     In rank and not-to-be-endured riots. Sir,
    rag-of-muffins where they are pepper'd. There's not three of my
    It was Alencon that enjoy'd my love.

    Of fool and feather that they got in France,
  Tell me thou lov'st elsewhere; but in my sight,
  FIRST CITIZEN. Come, come, we fear the worst; all will be
    And with your blood and it I'll make a paste;
    That, otherwise than noble nature did,
  NERISSA. If he should offer to choose, and choose the right casket,
    Of the unworthiest siege.
    swells a man; and what a thing should I have been when
    honesty?
  CLOWN. I warrant you, sir; let me alone.
  LAUNCELOT. The old proverb is very well parted between my master
  STEPHANO. Now, forward with your tale.-Prithee stand
    For he is fierce and cannot brook hard language.
    Let molten coin be thy damnation,
    So much my conscience whispers in your ear,
    Who dies that bears not one spurn to their graves
  CLEOPATRA. O my lord, my lord,
    No foot shall stir.
  FALSTAFF. Have I caught thee, my heavenly jewel?
    Upon this island as a spy, to win it
    As any mortal body hearing it
    Then would I have his Harry, and he mine.
  FIRST MURDERER. So do not I. Go, coward as thou art.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Where noble fellows strike. War is no strife
    Study me how to please the eye indeed,
  ANTONY. I have heard it, Pompey,
    And she whom mighty kingdoms curtsy to,
    I saw his heart in's face. Give me thy hand;
    To check his reign but they will cherish it;
  LAUNCELOT. Indeed the short and the long is, I serve the Jew, and
    Patroclus, let us feast him to the height.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    When you have well deserv'd ten times as much
    And with affection wondrous sensible
    mallet.  
    That I shall think it a most plenteous crop
  VIOLA. [Aside] Pray God defend me! A little thing would make me
    Away with these disgraceful wailing robes!
    Both our inventions meet and jump in one.
  Reg. What do you mean?
    To have his pomp, and all what state compounds,
Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
     But she knows what she does.
    Unto the kingdom of perpetual night.
  LEONTES. You are married?
  CRESSIDA. Why, Paris hath colour enough.  

     The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices
    I'll not sleep neither. This mortal house I'll ruin,
    But O, what damned minutes tells he o'er
    To give thee, from our royal master, thanks;
  PROSPERO. How now, moody?
  ROSS. Your son, my lord, has paid a soldier's debt.

    And set thy diadem upon my head,

    And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
    Fie, de la Pole! disable not thyself;
    When service sweat for duty, not for meed!
    good Marcius, I had rather had eleven die nobly for their country
  CURTIS. I call them forth to credit her.
       Thunder and lightning. Enter ARIEL, like a harpy;
    Give up your keys.
  DUKE OF VENICE. Bring us the letters; call the messenger.
  KING PHILIP. Bind up those tresses. O, what love I note
  SIR TOBY. I have been dear to him, lad- some two thousand strong,
         Enter the BASTARD and PETER OF POMFRET
  Nurse. No, truly, sir; not a penny.
    Pardon me, princely Henry, and the rest:
    Nor take no shape nor project of affection,
    That sport best pleases that doth least know how;
  Edg. What, in ill thoughts again? Men must endure
  LAUNCE. O illiterate loiterer. It was the son of thy grandmother.
    Stop close their mouths, let them not speak a word.

  GLOUCESTER. Where it seems best unto your royal self.  
  DEMETRIUS. I say I love thee more than he can do.
    May make it probable need.
  LOVELL. O that your lordship were but now confessor
    If thy unworthiness raised love in me,
  SICINIUS. Menenius, you are known well enough too.
    To-morrow, good Sir Michael, is a day
     If you have victory, let the trumpet sound  

  MALVOLIO. Why, of mankind.
    I would be glad to see it.
    To towers and windows, yea, to chimney tops,
    Nay, it is ten times true; for truth is truth
  KING PHILIP. Let it be so. Say, where will you assault?  
    His perishing root with the increasing vine!
    All but new things disdain; whose judgments are
  KATHERINE. Dat is as it shall please de roi mon pere.
    You have conspir'd against our royal person,
    For scorn at first makes after-love the more.
    I am content, so he will let me have
  For blunting the fine point of seldom pleasure.  
    Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven,
    Of every beardless vain comparative;
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Whose heart th' accustom'd sight of death makes hard,
    His youthful hose, well sav'd, a world too wide
    Now humble as the ripest mulberry
    take a nap; I will awake it anon.                       Exit

  MENELAUS. Good night, my lord.

    marshal's men. I saw it, and told John a Gaunt he beat his own
    And so deliver: I am put to sea
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. None are so surely caught, when they are
    In that good path that I would wish it go,
    'Stroy'd in dishonour.
  SECOND NEIGHBOUR. And here, neighbour, here's a cup of charneco.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Speak, brave Hector; we are much delighted.
ACT_4|SC_1
  COSTARD. Well, if ever I do see the merry days of desolation that I
your debt. But a good conscience will make any possible
ACT IV. SCENE I.
          Should sure to the slaughter,
  AUTOLYCUS. O, good sir, softly, good sir; I fear, sir, my shoulder
  TRANIO. O despiteful love! unconstant womankind!
    That doth sustain my house; you take my life  
    Their cruel parricide, filling their hearers

    I am with child, ye bloody homicides;
    precise villains they are, that I am sure of, and void of all
    Japhet. But the letter:  [Reads]  'Sir John Falstaff, knight, to
  EXETER. He'll make your Paris Louvre shake for it,
  FLUELLEN. Know the glove? I know the glove is a glove.
    Therefore he hates me.
  ROSALINE. Come on, then, wear the favours most in sight.
  BRUTUS. You have done that you should be sorry for.
    To bear him easily hence!
    War with mankind.
SCENE: Scotland and England
  HOSTESS. Faith, you said so before.
    Your Grace was wont to laugh, is also missing.
    Past and to come, that you do change this purpose,
    'twas a pennyworth, wast not?
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  ABHORSON. Do you call, sir?
    With sorrow snares relenting passengers;
    The rest aloof are the Dardanian wives,
  CORIOLANUS. A goodly house. The feast smells well, but I
    One fit to bandy with thy lawless sons,
    And that's the reason I love him so little.
    With us to break his neck.
  IAGO. What, are you mad? I charge you, get you home.
    be nothing compell'd from the villages, nothing taken but paid
  CLOWN. He seems to be of great authority. Close with him, give him
  BOYET. No; he is best indued in the small.
    For he will live and laugh at this hereafter.
    Which he, young wanton and effeminate boy,

    Did seem to say 'Seek not a scorpion's nest,
  BELARIUS. Sons,

  Hot. Nay, I will! That is flat!
    The sole drift of my purpose doth extend
    The pride of kingly sway from out my heart;
  LUCIO. I'll be hang'd first. Thou art deceiv'd in me, friar. But no
  EDWARD. Now breathe we, lords. Good fortune bids us pause
    But with as humble lowliness of mind

    Garnish'd and deck'd in modest complement,
  TITUS. Come, Marcus, let us go. Publius, follow me.     Exeunt
    For, being transported by my jealousies
  MRS. PAGE. Master Doctor, my daughter is in green; when
  GARDINER. Yes, yes, Sir Thomas,
    That Caesar is more dangerous than he.
    Thy promises are like Adonis' gardens,
    should have been a pander. Over and above that you have
    wound; there is more sense in that than in reputation. Reputation
    Run to my study.- By-and-by!- God's will,
  DUKE. Who was it?
  SERVANT. One Isabel, a sister, desires access to you.
    When I shall dwell with worms, and my poor name
  VARRO,     servant to Brutus
    As water is in water.
    And spleen of speed to see your Majesty!
    This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England,
    rejoice in that absence wherein he won honour than in the
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Lest eyes well-seeing thy foul faults should find.
    Commodity, the bias of the world-

  KING. Know you this ring? This ring was his of late.
    But I for mere suspicion in that kind
    Our substitutes at home shall have blank charters;
    Happy the parents of so fair a child;

    Vagabond exile, flaying, pent to linger
  Ham. It will be short; the interim is mine,
    These high wild hills and rough uneven ways
     He but usurp'd his life.

  King. Ay, Hamlet.
    To furnish Rome and to prepare the ways
  PROSPERO. Hear a little further,

COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
ACT III. SCENE I.
  MESSENGER. These were her words, utt'red with mild disdain:
    To expel him thence. I think he'll be to Rome
York. The Archbishop's Palace.
  Leonato, Governor of Messina.
         Enter the KING and the DUKE OF SUFFOLK
  MENENIUS. Nay, temperately! Your promise.
    Weary se'nnights nine times nine
  Rings, jewels, anything his rage did like.
  Fal. Well, God give thee the spirit of persuasion and him the ears
                     107
    Hast thou slain Tybalt? Wilt thou slay thyself?
    but indeed, God forbid it should be so!'
    Lorenzo, who is thy new master's guest.
  FALSTAFF. I sit at ten pounds a week.
    O' th' world, I would pursue it.
         March. Enter WARWICK, MONTAGUE, and their army
  APEMANTUS. Ay.
  LAUNCE. Ask my dog. If he say ay, it will; if he say no, it will;
    To sell and mart your offices for gold
    The one my duty owes; but my fair name,
SCENE III.
  EMILIA. Good madam, what's the matter with my lord?  
    Accompany your hearts!
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    You wager'd on your angling; when your diver
    Or lay on that shall make your shoulders crack.  
  Prince. Content- and the argument shall be thy running away.
  PROVOST. His name is Barnardine.
    And should, if I were worthy to be judge,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  Prince. Else he had been damn'd for cozening the devil.
    do wear. Sight may distinguish of colours; but suddenly to
    Will prove too bloody, and the end of it
    For fear of swallowing; but with nimble wing
    Did I say "better"?
  LEPIDUS. Let all the number of the stars give light
           Re-enter SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, and GONZALO
    Come to me at your convenient leisure, and you shall
     Yet have I ventur'd to come seek you out
    Like death when he shuts up the day of life;
  Within thine own bud buriest thy content,
    'Twill fill your stomachs; please you eat of it.
    And drop upon our bare unarmed heads.
    And dare us with his cap like larks.
    This creature's no such thing.
  AGAMEMNON. Even this.
  Ham. How comes it? Do they grow rusty?
  King. How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
    Nor ne'er wed woman, if you be not she.
    And lay my arms before the legs of this sweet lass of France.
    His glittering arms he will commend to rust,
                           Enter HUME
    The lustful Edward's title buried-
    I would have been much more a fresher man,
    needs prove a good soldier-breeder. Shall not thou and I, between
    Than arm thy constant and thy nobler parts
  KING RICHARD. All unavoided is the doom of destiny.
  HORTENSIUS. Most true, he does.
    And for his meed, poor lord, he is mewed up.
    For my prosperity!                                  [Kneels]
    beauties, let me sustain no scorn; I am very comptible, even to
    My lord the Emperor, resolve me this:
  BEROWNE. By earth, she is not, corporal: there you lie.
ACT IV. SCENE I.
    O ho! a while, but ha! ha! ha!  
    They were all struck for thee! Naught that I am,
                                                         Exeunt.
    The more of you 'twas felt, the more it shap'd
  LORD BARDOLPH. We all that are engaged to this loss
  ULYSSES. The amity that wisdom knits not, folly may easily untie.
    for your manager is in love; yea, he loveth. Assist me, some
  To linger out a purposed overthrow.
  CLAUDIO. Thou shalt not do't.
  PETRUCHIO. They shall go forward, Kate, at thy command.
    And at our stamp here, o'er and o'er one falls;
  LUCIO. No, pardon; 'tis a secret must be lock'd within the teeth
    It will not be-retire into your trenches.
    Lest it be said 'Speak, sirrah, when you should;
    after rain, and revel an with him.
  LUCY. Is Talbot slain-the Frenchmen's only scourge,
  Glend. Come, you shall have Trent turn'd.  
    I am sent expressly to your lordship.
  ROSALIND. Good my complexion! dost thou think, though I am
    And in the meantime sojourn'd at my father's;
  COSTARD. Thou hast no feeling of it, Moth; I will speak that

    The French, advis'd by good intelligence
    As, after some oration fairly spoke
Saint Albans
  JULIA.  [Aside]  And me, when he approacheth to your presence.

  PEDANT. Alas, sir, it is worse for me than so!
    impressure her Lucrece with which she uses to seal; 'tis my lady.
  The bounteous largess given thee to give?

    Hides my heart. So, let me hear you speak.
    And bid my lord, for joy of this good news,
    Here in Verona, ladies of esteem,
  The worser spirit a woman coloured ill.
    And all good men of this ungovern'd isle.
  SON. Ill blows the wind that profits nobody.
    That Geffrey was thy elder brother born,
  And truly not the morning sun of heaven  
    O'ermount the lark. The Marchioness of Pembroke!
    Because Cassandra's mad. Her brain-sick raptures
  Beside the charge, the shame, imprisonment,
    What things are these, my lord Antonio?
    Being ten times undervalued to tried gold?
  BRAKENBURY. With this, my lord, myself have naught to do.
  KING HENRY. Well, for this night we will repose us here.
  QUINCE. 'Ninus' tomb,' man! Why, you must not speak that yet; that
  BRUTUS. Bear with me, good boy, I am much forgetful.
               [Flourish. The KING and his train enter the town]
    That dost in vile misprision shackle up
    And liquor likewise will I give to thee,
  TUBAL. There came divers of Antonio's creditors in my company to
  WINCHESTER. Unreverent Gloucester!
    I have some private schooling for you both.
    Thine own life's means! Then 'tis most like
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Pale ashes of the house of Lancaster!

    Than greatness going off.
     I must change arms at home and give the distaff
    When heaven shall call her from this cloud of darkness-
    meddle with no tradesman's matters, nor women's matters, but with
  QUICKLY. Eight and nine, sir.
A heath. Thunder.
  SECOND CITIZEN. Not one amongst us, save yourself, but says
                 Your need to sustain;
  TITUS. Why, I have not another tear to shed;
                              Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS and MENAS
    you writ to Diana in behalf of the Count Rousillon? An I were not

    All in an hour.
  LUCENTIO. It is. May it be done?
    Are grown so catching.

    I have not that alacrity of spirit
    Myself hath often heard them say-
    Usurps the regal title and the seat
    any that treads but on four pasterns. Ca, ha! he bounds from the
  CALIBAN. No, pray thee.
    Be not offended, nature's miracle,
    the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not to come', if it be
                Lord, what fools these mortals be!
    Which quier'd with my drum, into a pipe
    The French King's sister. Heaven will one day open

    cheek of two pile and a half, but his right cheek is worn bare.
    hast more of the wild goose in one of thy wits than, I am sure, I
    the woollen!
    under one body's hand.
    not yet.
  
    Go to the Douglas and deliver him
    Then vail your ignorance; if none, awake
    With as little a web as this will I ensnare as great a fly as
  CAPHIS. It is. And yours too, Isidore?
  COUNTESS. Will your answer serve fit to all questions?
    But bear-like I must fight the course. What's he
  TOUCHSTONE. Come apace, good Audrey; I will fetch up your goats,
    Come on, tune. If you can penetrate her with your fingering, so.
    To link with him that were not lawful chosen.

    And sat at good men's feasts, and wip'd our eyes
    So I may keep mine eyes. O, spare mine eyes,
  WARWICK. How now, my lord. What hap? What hope of good?
  Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief,


    They have a king, and officers of sorts,

    Of broached mischief to the unborn times?
    Th' ambassador is silenc'd?  
  LEONTES. What is the business?
    The queen of earthly queens. She's noble born;
                       in blue coats
    But must my sons be slaughtered in the streets
  O let me suffer (being at your beck)
    By Jove, I'll play the hunter for thy life

  Or mine eyes seeing this, say this is not
    I arn no breeching scholar in the schools,

WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE

    Then bid adieu to me, and say the tears
    By the good aid that I of you shall borrow,
    And get you from our court.  
    Have I since your departure had, my lords.
    For now we owe allegiance unto Henry.
  VIRGILIA. No, good madam; I will not out of doors.
    'That can denote me truly. These indeed seem,
    And either victory or else a grave!
    Till it o'errun the stew: laws for all faults,
    words to her own ears; she thought, I dare vow for her, they
    Assist, good friends.
    So long a poor unknown.
    Thither we bend again.
                                              Exit with the body  
  CORIOLANUS. Your enigma?
  Lear. No, Regan, thou shalt never have my curse.
     Are of the adder. Which of them shall I take?
  Which but to-day by feeding is allayed,
    Uncapable of pity, void and empty
  PANDULPH. You look but on the outside of this work.
    piercing statutes daily to chain up and restrain the poor. If the
  POMPEY. Proof?  
    Thou art one o' th' false ones. Now I think on thee

  FIRST SENATOR. My lord, you have my voice to't: the fault's bloody.
    But vows to every purpose must not hold.
    Corrupt and tainted with a thousand vices,
  CHARLES. Marry, do I, sir; and I came to acquaint you with a
    According to our proclamation, gone?
    The noble ruin of her magic, Antony,
    Give me a note; your ladyship can set.
    By many an ounce- he dropt it for his country;
    virgins with the broken seals of perjury; some, making the wars
  PETRUCHIO. Not her that chides, sir, at any hand, I pray.
  CHARMIAN, lady attending on Cleopatra
  DERBY. It is, and wants but nomination.
  Osr. I know you are not ignorant-
                      Conrade and Borachio.
SCENE VI.

    Upon the giddy footing of the hatches,
  LUCETTA. I have no other but a woman's reason:
  TRANIO. Curster than she? Why, 'tis impossible.
    Gives o'er and leaves his part-created cost
    O, not to-day, think not upon the fault
    But constant, he were perfect! That one error
    the manner of it. This shoe is my father; no, this left shoe is
Rome. The house of CORIOLANUS
  MAYOR. O, my good lords, and virtuous Henry,
  LUCIUS. Let proof speak.
    Are you now going to dispatch this thing?
    Like a bright exhalation in the evening,
  KING EDWARD. Who knows not he is dead! Who knows
    The master, the swabber, the boatswain, and I,
  TYRREL. The tyrannous and bloody act is done,
    Rich pearls upon thee.
    Here will I rest me till the break of day.
    jordan.  [Exit FRANCIS]- [Singing]  'And was a worthy king'- How
  AGAMEMNON. Hark! hark! what shout is this?
  The scars of battle scapeth by the flight,
  LUCENTIO. Faith, mistress, then I have no cause to stay.
    Ay me, I can no more! Die, Margaret,

PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    Had rather have us win than him they follow.
    rather, the herb of grace.
  Ant. A good sharp fellow. I will send for him, and question him

  CORIOLANUS. Shall I be charg'd no further than this present?

             Exeunt the DUCHESS and the other prisoners, guarded
    Much good do it unto thy gentle heart!  
  EMILIA. It's the wind.
    That hath receiv'd some unrecuring wound.
                                                    [They go up]
    have her or no.
    His absolute commission. Long live Caesar!
  KING. Give her an hundred marks. I'll to the Queen.            Exit
    Or with pale beggar-fear impeach my height
  DUKE. Belong you to the Lady Olivia, friends?
    The odds for high and low's alike.
    By this white beard, I'd fight with thee to-morrow.
    Than hope enjoy'd. By this the weary lords
    But few now give so great ones. My barge stays;
    Began a fresh assault.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Nay, speak thy mind; and let him ne'er speak more
  Rom. Good morrow to you both. What counterfeit did I give you?
  SALISBURY. O, he is bold, and blushes not at death!
  PROTEUS. But pearls are fair; and the old saying is:
    To him that hath most cause to be a mourner,
                                                   Exit Horatio.
    Rushing on us should do your age some mischief.
  BRANDON. A monk o' th' Chartreux.
    It shall go hard if Cambio go without her.              Exit
                                                          Exeunt
    the fire too. Come, talk not of her. You shall find her the

    And burn in many places; on the topmast,
  CERES. Hail, many-coloured messenger, that ne'er
    My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar,
    Whom would to God I had well knock'd at first,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  PROSPERO. If thou more murmur'st, I will rend an oak
    Young, valiant, wise, and no doubt right royal-
  Pol. [points to his head and shoulder] Take this from this, if this
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    You shall enjoy them, everything set off
SCENE IV.
    You, the great toe of this assembly?
    Let every feeble rumour shake your hearts;
  ARIEL. Close by, my master.  
    Be rein'd again to temperance; then he speaks
  Reg. I pray you, father, being weak, seem so.
    I'll to the Queen. Please you come something nearer.
    To dote thus on such luggage? Let 't alone,
  SEVENTH CITIZEN. Therefore let him be consul. The gods give him
    What Venus did with Mars.
                     Enter CORIN and TOUCHSTONE
    And suffer the condition of these times
  Pedro. I shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love.
Another room in ANGELO'S house
  OBERON. Stand close; this is the same Athenian.
    The splinter of a lance. Even so much.
    By him that thunders, thou hast lusty arms;
  EMILIA.                                   Alas, what cry is that?
  Samp. I mean, an we be in choler, we'll draw.
  Edm. Save thee, Curan.
    on the other, gart'red with a red and blue list; an old hat, and

    sufficiently manage, must either stay to execute them thyself, or
  DUKE. Nay, it is ten times strange.
                                                         Exeunt.
    And whiter than the sheets! That I might touch!
  WILLIAM STAFFORD. Jack Cade, the Duke of York hath taught you this.
  KING HENRY. Let me embrace thee, sour adversity,
  Bidding them find their sepulchres in mud;
  ROSALIND. Pray you, no more of this; 'tis like the howling of Irish
    answer him.
  MACBETH. Avaunt, and quit my sight! Let the earth hide thee!
    My father gave me honour, yours gave land.
  SALISBURY. When we were happy we had other names.

    Our swifter composition.
  DUKE. If music be the food of love, play on,
  SERVANT, to Lord Chief Justice

    commerce with my lady, and will by and by depart.
    Proud scornful boy, unworthy this good gift,
The Greek camp
France. The FRENCH KING'S palace
  ACHILLES. To him, Patroclus. Tell him I humbly desire the valiant
  GLOUCESTER. What's thine own name?
  LAFEU. Not to be help'd-
    Or else dries up; to be discarded thence!
  Ros. Believe what?
  GLOUCESTER. I cannot tell; the world is grown so bad

    There's thy reward; be gone.                       Exit POST
    Who made the Dauphin and the French to stoop,
    argal, she drown'd herself wittingly.
    Than what stirs not. The cry went once on thee,
  Ham. Madam, how like you this play?
    are Worthies a-coming will speak their mind in some other sort.
    Father, I charge thee, by thy reverence,
  SUFFOLK. What woman is this?  
    Spoke of in Scotland as this term of fear.
    And will not use a woman lawlessly.
    And at the dean'ry, where a priest attends,
    In deep designs, in matter of great moment,
SCENE VI.
    It cannot be; thou dost but say 'tis so;
     Her father's heart from her! Call France! Who stirs?
  Edm. Spake you with him?
  NESTOR. [Aside] How he describes himself!

ACT III. SCENE I.
    No barricado for a belly. Know't,
  FORD. 'Tis my fault, Master Page; I suffer for it.
    That ever hath but clipp'd his body is dearer
    Coming from Sardis, on our former ensign
    Between my father and my mother lay,  
    'and run.' Well, my conscience, hanging about the neck of my
    heat as butter; a man of continual dissolution and thaw. It
  KING HENRY. The head of Cade! Great God, how just art Thou!  
     Shall never see so much, nor live so long.
    How scapes he agues, in the devil's name
  YORK. Take her away; for she hath liv'd too long,  
    Over the nasty sty!
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    But theirs is sweet'ned with the hope to have
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  DESDEMONA. O heavy ignorance! Thou praisest the worst best. But what
  CALIBAN. Thou liest, thou jesting monkey, thou;
  VALENTINE. I would it were no worse.
  For. Go softly on.
    And see my wealthy Andrew dock'd in sand,
    Hath clapp'd his tail between his legs and cried;  
  CLEOPATRA. As well a woman with an eunuch play'd
    When there is such disorder in my wit.
    And grant it may with thee in true peace live!
    from the answer of his degree.

    But that myself should be the root and father
    Is't come to this? Well, well.
  SPEED. 'Item: She is proud.'
  MACBETH. You know your own degrees; sit down. At first
  GENTLEWOMAN. Neither to you nor anyone, having no witness to
  ROSALIND. Patience herself would startle at this letter,
                Re-enter SIR TOBY With SIR ANDREW
  MENELAUS. Let me confirm my princely brother's greeting.
    Had twenty years been made. This is a stern
  Mar. Nay, let's follow him.
  OTHELLO. Get you to bed on the instant; I will be returned
    These hands do lack nobility, that they strike

  IAGO. And did you see the handkerchief?
    As from a conduit with three issuing spouts-
    Have almost stamp'd the leasing; therefore, fellow,
    Why does the drum come hither?
  ENOBARBUS. If I were bound to divine of this unity, I would not

    Of such a time: being my sworn servant,
    Things growing are not ripe until their season;
    Using those thoughts which should indeed have died
    Hold thou my sword-hilts, whilst I run on it.

  Nurse. Ah, weraday! he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
    Do you not read some tokens of my son
    Where their appointment we may best discover
    In my green velvet coat; my dagger muzzl'd,
  Ham. Sir, I lack advancement.
    Is, I know how to curse. The red plague rid you
    With Romeo till I behold him- dead-

    Sprung from neglected love.- How now, Ophelia?

SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>

    Master Surecard, as I think?
    they have acquainted me with their determinations, which is
    More than my father's skill, which was the great'st
    I should have ta'en some pains to bring together
     Who wears no honesty. Such smiling rogues as these,
    Is held no great good lover of the Archbishop's,
    I prithee do not strive against my vows.
  PISANIO. Hence, vile instrument!
  Whilst man and master laughs my woes to scorn.
    or nothing.
    For he to-day that sheds his blood with me
    Because the King is certainly possess'd
    Your master wed me to: nothing but death
    Inhabits in the finest wits of all.
    the way to make an offence gracious, though few have the grace to
    And let not Bardolph's vital thread be cut
Before the house of ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    level at the edge of a penknife. And, for a retreat- how swiftly
    What's thy offence, Claudio?
  KING RICHARD. Then plainly to her tell my loving tale.
    To shame unvulnerable, and stick i' th' wars

    That lie within the mercy of your wit.
     Or rather a disease that's in my flesh,
  CASSIUS. Ay, every man away.
    And formally, according to our law,
    I give a sparing limit to my tongue.
    Were I the wearer of Antonius' beard,
  EXETER. Soldier, you must come to the King.
  Gon. O vain fool!
    Believe me, lords, were none more wise than I-
Enter MARIA and CLOWN
    The ratifiers and props of every word,
    If charnel houses and our graves must send

                         Enter FLAVIUS, to TIMON

  SPEED. Without you! Nay, that's certain; for, without you were so
    That only Warwick's daughter shall be thine.
    And thou be thrust out like a fugitive?
    Which with usurping steps do trample thee;
    Set fire on barns and hay-stacks in the night,
    Whose footing here anticipates our thoughts  
    So let it be with Caesar. The noble Brutus
  HOLOFERNES. Let me hear a staff, a stanze, a verse; lege, domine.
    And pluck commiseration of his state
    Where they shall know our mind. Away!                 Exeunt
                                          Iago offers to stab Emilia.
  WOLSEY. Yes, he was.
              With honour to maintain.

SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Let that one article rank with the rest;
  To say they err, I dare not be so bold,
    Which likes me better than to wish us one.
    And fill'd with honour, to my kingly guest
  One of her feathered creatures broke away,
    For so we are inform'd-with new opinions,
    Breathless and faint, leaning upon my sword,
  Rom. Ha, banishment? Be merciful, say 'death';
  VENTIDIUS. O Silius, Silius,
    Whether I in any just term am affined
    I oft found both. I urge this childhood proof,
    And had I not been cited so by them,
    Consider of it.'
  IRIS. A contract of true love to celebrate,
    And when thou wed'st, let sorrow haunt thy bed;
Marseilles. A street
    Where the disease is violent. Lay hands upon him
    Sly's son of Burton Heath; by birth a pedlar, by education a  

    Fain would I dwell on form- fain, fain deny
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. That I did.
    My arm shall give thee help to bear thee hence;
            Thunder. First Apparition: an armed Head.
  Lear. First let me talk with this philosopher.  
  YORK. An if I wist he did-but let it rest;
  MARCIUS. Nay, let them follow.
    If 'twill tie up thy discontented sword
    And like a hungry lion did commence
    I do; and will fetch off Bohemia for't;
    He heard the name of death.                 [A noise within]
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. Thomas Cromwell,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    As true hearts cannot bear.
    But the bottom of the news is, our general is cut i' th' middle
    Will I look to't.
    Than when she liv'd indeed. Then shall he mourn
    For I myself am not so well provided
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  DESDEMONA. I cannot speak of this. Come now, your promise.
    He was not taken well: he had not din'd;
    With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts-
    Three thousand ducats. I'll not answer that,

    Where fair is not, praise cannot mend the brow.
    Which, as thou know'st, unjustly must be spilt.
    Either be gone before the watch be set,
  SEBASTIAN. [To OLIVIA] So Comes it, lady, you have been mistook;
  TROILUS. I am giddy; expectation whirls me round.
    With honour as in war; since that to both
  PORTIA.  [Aside]  Too long a pause for that which you find there.

  AGAMEMNON. We go wrong, we go wrong.
    heads

    And sends the poor well pleased from my gate.
     For nature to endure.
    To the first giver.
    Let us not live in France; let us quit an,
    By all the vows that ever men have broke,
    Coy looks with heart-sore sighs, one fading moment's mirth
  GLOUCESTER. Go tread the path that thou shalt ne'er return.
                     Tucket. Enter MONTJOY
    And so rebel to judgment.
    And all the rest look like a chidden train:
                           Enter RATCLIFF
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
    In winter's cold and summer's parching heat,
    Out of your best advice.
    Command me any service to her thither?
  ARMADO. Sweet invocation of a child; most pretty, and pathetical!
  Hot. Why say you so? Looks he no for supply?
    What!                                     Exeunt LOVELL and DENNY
    Smells from the general weal. Make curl'd-pate ruffians bald,  
  MORTIMER. True; and thou seest that I no issue have,
  THESEUS. Would you desire lime and hair to speak better?
  Which accidentally are met together.
    The valiant Duke of Bedford. Come, my lord,
  Glou. Unmerciful lady as you are, I am none.
    Death of thy soul! Those linen cheeks of thine
    In their continuance will not feel themselves.
    I can interpret all her martyr'd signs;  
    Did an Egyptian to my mother give;
  CLOWN. Ay, of my pigeons, sir; nothing else.
  The humble as the proudest sail doth bear,
    With sunken wreck and sumless treasuries.
  Claud. O, very well, my lord. The music ended,
    Which then they had to take from 's, to resume
  Poins. Sirrah Jack, thy horse stands behind the hedge. When thou
  Leon. O, she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence, rail'd at
  BOTH. Most thankfully, my lord.
  THIRD OUTLAW. Have you long sojourn'd there?


    Therefore no no, for I resign to thee.

  And in this mist at all adventures go.
     Oppos'd against the act, bending his sword

PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    Look where he goes even now out at the portal!
    A choking gall, and a preserving sweet.  
    Learn him forbearance from so foul a wrong.
    part, I only hear your son was run away.                Exit
    And (would it were not so!) you are my mother.

    Make less thy body hence, and more thy grace;
    But like a pleasant slumber in thy lap?
    talents.
    oil that's in me should set hell on fire; he would never else  
    Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
  Leon. Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly.
  CLEOPATRA. I do not like 'but yet.' It does allay
    Henceforward I am ever rul'd by you.
    Farewell. Be trusty, and I'll quit thy pains.
  JULIA. Let's see your song.     [LUCETTA withholds the letter]
  PAROLLES. Right; as 'twere a man assur'd of a-
    Turns head against the lion's armed jaws,
  DESDEMONA.                  My dear Othello!
  BERTRAM. And so 'tis.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    I do arrest you in His Highness' name,
    And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
    And put on fear and cast yourself in wonder
  HERMIA. I understand not what you mean by this.

    Have I the aspic in my lips? Dost fall?

    The heads of Salisbury, Spencer, Blunt, and Kent.
    you both.
  OLD GOBBO, father to Launcelot
  Fal. Where's Poins, Hal?
    Whom worthily you would have now succeed,
  ANNE. Would they were basilisks to strike thee dead!
    The several chairs of order look you scour
    Whereof you did complain; which, by mine honour,
    Than for myself I dare. Let that suffice you.
  OLIVER. Well then, take a good heart and counterfeit to be a man.

  PROSPERO. Thou most lying slave,
    Now, good Sir John, how like you Windsor wives?
    I did in time collect myself, and thought
                Beg of her for remedy.
  MARIA. A dry jest, sir.

    It is an earnest of a further good
    He'd fetch us in; yet is't not probable
  AGRIPPA. 'Tis a noble Lepidus.
    Which swell'd so much that it did almost stretch
  CORIOLANUS. O that I had him,
    Who led me instantly unto his cave,
  QUEEN. So longest way shall have the longest moans.

    That tide will stay me longer than I should.
  Queen. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
    seal-ring of my grandfather's worth forty mark.
    That bears the name of life? Yet in this life
    malefactors?
    And he that got it, sentenc'd- a young man
  SECOND MURDERER. Zounds, he dies; I had forgot the reward.
    How now, Ulysses!
  AGUECHEEK. Nor I neither.
    Is fashion'd for the journey dull and heavy.
  PISANIO. O gentlemen, help!
    A plague o' both your houses! I am sped.
  Jul. Then have my lips the sin that they have took.  
    Reignier, stand thou as Dauphin in my place;
                                                      Exit CLOWN
  JULIA. Here comes the Duke.
    Miscarried by my fault, let my old life
  To dry the rain on my storm-beaten face,
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Married in league, coupled and link'd together
  BASTARD. Art thou gone so? I do but stay behind

  Poins. Welcome, Jack. Where hast thou been?

    To look upon him, till the diminution
    Which I gave him for cordial, she is serv'd
    I'll tell ye more.

  ENOBARBUS. [Aside to CLEOPATRA] 'Tis one of those odd tricks which
    [To RICHMOND]  Be cheerful, Richmond; for the wronged
  A CLOWN
  PISANIO. How? of adultery? Wherefore write you not
    Are yours- my lord's. I give them with this ring,
    Not one word more of the consumed time.
    Of whom he's chief- with all the size that verity
    it as any man in England. You are afraid, if you see the
  Kent. Did your letters pierce the Queen to any demonstration of
  AUTOLYCUS. What advocate hast thou to him?
  TROILUS. Thy better must.
    go to your knees and make ready.
  SICINIUS. We are convented
    Whom best I love I cross; to make my gift,
    These pipes and these conveyances of our blood
    That we remember. There is our commission,
    Which will not prove a whip; as many coxcombs
    good and particular mistress.
    another's fortunes! O, joy's e'en made away ere't can be born!
    Go to, go to!
    Hath Cadwal now to give it motion? Hark!

    Hear me without thine cars, and make reply
  OUTLAW. A prize, a prize, a prize!
    Come, will you go?
    Confusion fall-
    But here's the joy, my friend and I are one,
  Henry Percy, surnamed Hotspur, his son.
    I tell you, younglings, not Enceladus,
  Ben. This wind you talk of blows us from ourselves.
  PRINCE. And yours, most noble Bardolph!
    But let her live.
    Proceeded further- cut me off the heads
  HOSTESS. Do I? Yea, in very truth, do I, an 'twere an aspen leaf. I
    Resign thy chair, and where I stand kneel thou,
  POMPEY. Yonder man is carried to prison.
  King. I do not fear it, I have seen you both;
    and one of them is white.'
    Could out of thee extract one spark of evil
    Of what hath come to pass; for when she saw-
  CLARENCE. You scarcely have the hearts to tell me so,
  Claud.O my lord,
    Thou on him leaning, and all Troy on thee,
    With joy he will embrace you; for he's honourable,  
    The inward service of the mind and soul
ACT V. SCENE 4.
    Pour all your tears! I am your sorrow's nurse,
    Which dances with your daughter?
    Who are surpris'd withal; but my rejoicing
  ANTONY. Octavius, lead your battle softly on,
    This is not hunters' language. He that strikes
    Griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast,

  CAESAR. Ha! Who calls?
    And I shall find you empty of that fault,
    Of knights, esquires, and gallant gentlemen,
    But list to me, my Humphrey, my sweet Duke:
  King. But how hath she
    Doth stop my cornets, were in Talbot's place!

  PANDARUS. In good troth, it begins so.                      [Sings]
     entreaty forbear his presence until some little time hath
    That drew their swords with you. Did he not rather
    The manner of their taking may appear
    A merchant of incomparable wealth.
  HORTENSIO. Petruchio, since we are stepp'd thus far in,
  CASSIUS. I but believe it partly,
  Leon. I know not. If they speak but truth of her,
  GONZALO. Marvellous sweet music!

    He's a sworn rioter; he has a sin that often

  CONSTANCE. Do, child, go to it grandam, child;
  SURREY. I would 'twere something that would fret the string,
    Leads discontented steps in foreign soil,
                   The foolish Fates.'
    For that I woo, thou therefore hast no cause;
    Giving a gentle kiss to every sedge
  ISABELLA. We cannot weigh our brother with ourself.
  HIPPOLYTA. Indeed he hath play'd on this prologue like a child on a
    divers schedules of my beauty. It shall be inventoried, and every
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    To make confession and to be absolv'd.
  Where is the gold I gave in charge to thee?
  John. I thank your Grace for this high courtesy,
  MALVOLIO. Sweet lady, ho, ho.
    Till of this flat a mountain you have made
    brain. Good madonna, give me leave to prove you a fool.
  IMOGEN. That headless man
    Places remote enough are in Bohemia,
  Or if it were it bore not beauty's name:
  Fresh to myself, if I had self-applied
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
                         Enter GLOUCESTER
    [Gets into the basket; they cover him with foul linen]
    Fling up his cap and say 'God save his Majesty!'
    Be brought against me at my trial-day!

  BRABANTIO.               But thou must needs be sure
     thrusting on. An admirable evasion of whore-master man, to lay
    extemporal god of rhyme, for I am sure I shall turn sonnet.  
    vlouting-stogs, and 'tis not convenient you should be
  ANTONY. Antony, thou wouldst say.
     Horns whelk'd and wav'd like the enridged sea.
    My love without retention or restraint,
    That it may be to-day read o'er in Paul's.
    Before the Duke; and to the head of Angelo
     Which came from one that's of a neutral heart,
    By noting of the lady. I have mark'd
    throat, as if you swallowed love with singing love, sometime
    Two long days' journey, lords, or ere we meet.
                        Enter NESTOR
    The hopes of court! My hopes in heaven do dwell.           Exeunt
  FIRST CITIZEN. The former agents, if they did complain,
    But never till tonight, never till now,
    Be those the garments?
    To grim Necessity; and he and
             Runs his erring pilgrimage,
  KATHARINE. Not till it leave the rider in the mire.
    very nature will instruct her in it and compel her to some second
    Let me ne'er hope to see a chine again;
  MARGARELON. The devil take thee, coward!                       Exit

              For I the ballad will repeat,
    The treason that my haste forbids me show.
     Mark the high noises, and thyself bewray
  WESTMORELAND. Retreat is made, and execution stay'd.
    As 'tis reported, so.
  PANDARUS. And she takes upon her to spy a white hair on his chin.
    To speak before your time. Proceed.
Cornets. Enter KING HENRY, leaning on the CARDINAL'S shoulder, the NOBLES,
    Till I am even'd with him, wife for wife.
    Romeo, will you come to your father's? We'll to dinner thither.

    And from my shoulders crack my arms asunder,
                            SCENE 3.
      live,
    Wounds, friends, and what else dear that is consum'd
             Enter a MESSENGER  
  Why with the time do I not glance aside

    Be not so long to speak. I long to die
    augmentation of the Indies. You have not seen such a thing as
    Young Ferdinand, whom they suppose is drown'd,
  ROSS. Ah, good father,
  Claud. My villany?
    Of lullaby to bring her babe asleep.
         With one fool's head I came to woo,

    canst not, in the course of gratitude, but be a diligent follower
    sir.
  KATHERINE. De nails, de arm, de ilbow.
    Were he not proud, we all should wear with him;
             Then whither goest? Say, whither?
    Whose want, and whose delay, is strew'd with sweets,
  SIMON SHADOW
Scene III.
    Believe't, my lord and I have made an end:
The Forest of Arden
                                                      [Sound trumpet]
    Yet he shall have a noble memory.
    the star.

                                                 Exeunt citizens
    Then imitate the action of the tiger:
    But the worst of me. So I leave you, sir,
    I lov'd you dearly, would you believe my oaths
    But my arrival and my wife's in safety
    Aliena, I cannot be out of the sight of Orlando. I'll go find a

    Of him that brought them.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    And never to my red-look'd anger be
    That were unworthy to behold the same?
  HELENA. Yes, sooth; and so do you.
  SHALLOW. 'Tis so, indeed.

    Apollo, Pallas, Jove, or Mercury,
  PANDARUS. Ay, ay, ay; 'tis too plain a case.
    'Si fortune me tormente sperato me contento.'
    May hourly trample on their sovereign's head;
  Whilst he upon your soundless deep doth ride,
  PUCELLE. Now, Rouen, I'll shake thy bulwarks to the
  MAMILLIUS. I am like you, they say.
    And we alive that liv'd? Fly, damned baseness,
            Weary of all, shall want some.-
  DESDEMONA. He will not say so.
    did affect me; and I have heard herself come thus near, that,
         O, a Pit of clay for to be made  
                                        THE MADLY-US'D MALVOLIO'
                                           [They converse apart]
  DUKE. How now, gentleman? How is't with you?
A monastery
     I pray desire her call her wisdom to her.
  SILENCE. Who, I? I have been merry twice and once ere now.
    Upon whose dead corpse there was such misuse,
  PETRUCHIO. Villain, I say, knock me at this gate,

    Which shows like grief itself, but is not so;
Enter QUINCE, SNUG, BOTTOM, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING

    If she be mated with an equal husband?
  One blushing shame, another white despair:
    The happiest youth, viewing his progress through,  
  IMOGEN. Some Roman courtezan!
    Or memorize another Golgotha,
    Hath made me full of sickness and diseases.
  NURSE. Aaron, what shall I say unto the Empress?
    He cries aloud 'Tarry, my cousin Suffolk.
Dramatis Personae
    ask'd who was in the basket!
    As for thee, boy, go, get thee from my sight;
    and taken following her into the park; which, put together, is in
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I knew 't'would be a bald conclusion. But,
  MARIA. Sir, I have not you by th' hand.
    Who, all enrag'd, will banish Valentine,
    God shorten Harry's happy life one day.               Exeunt
    My gracious lord-
    Why do you send so thick?
   Would they strip from us; being valu'd thus-
  ALL. It shall be done.
    Whereto if you'll a willing ear incline,
    When scarce the blood was well wash'd from his hands

    Thou hast howl'd away twelve winters.
    As are those dulcet sounds in break of day

  FIRST WATCH. Faith, sir, if you had told as many lies in his behalf
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  DESDEMONA.                 A man that all his time
    The general subject to a well-wish'd king
    Something of moment then. I will go meet him.
    Father of Warwick, know you what this means?
  CYMBELINE. The tune of Imogen!
    Thy pains, not us'd, must by thyself be paid;
    You have put me into rhyme.
  DUCHESS. Why then, I will. Farewell, old Gaunt.
  Nurse. Go, girl, seek happy nights to happy days.
    be saved before the ancient. Let's have no more of this; let's to
    Shall from this practice but make hard your heart;
    Are all call'd neat.- Still virginalling
     This hideous rashness. Answer my life my judgment,  
  Gave any tragic instance of our harm:
    For that I knew it the most general way,
    Living to time.
  TIMON. I thank you; you shall hear from me anon;
    To give each naked curtle-axe a stain
  BRUTUS. But since he hath
    My name is Corporal Nym; I speak, and I avouch;
    entrench'd it. Say to him I live; and observe his reports for me.

  RODERIGO. It is silliness to live when to live is torment, and then

    Four lagging winters and four wanton springs
    To hazard all our lives in one small boat!
    I am the King's friend, and will rid his foe.         Exeunt
  MONTANO. What is the matter? How now, general?

    And on your eyelids crown the god of sleep,

  ANGELO. How, bribe me?
    By accident most strange, bountiful Fortune,
    He told me Paris should have married Juliet.
  GOWER. Our king is not like him in that: he never kill'd any of his
SCENE IV.
                [Laertes wounds Hamlet; then] in scuffling, they
  KING HENRY. I, Daedalus; my poor boy, Icarus;

    Are master of the feast. Cadwal and I
    Whether the tyranny be in his place,  
  TITUS. Tell me, can you deliver an oration to the Emperor with a
    Duke of Gloucester would speak with you.
    And now in England to our heart's great sorrow,

  DUKE. It is too general a vice, and severity must cure it.
    Life and these lips have long been separated.
     Up- so. How is't? Feel you your legs? You stand.  
    And so he walks, insulting o'er his prey,
    Or I'll so maul you and your toasting-iron
    Egregious murderer, thief, anything
    As the weird women promised, and I fear
    Go cheerfully together and digest
    Say this:
  FIRST SENATOR. Worthy Timon-
    as lief be woo'd of a snail.
    was yet of many accounted beautiful; but though I could not with

  CLOTEN. How long is't since she went to Milford Haven?
    O, think my son to be as dear to me!
  Cor. I yet beseech your Majesty,
    And will again commit them to their bonds,
    And, his corruption being taken from us,
    The mightiest of thy greatest enemies,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  Ham. Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
     Speak 'gainst so great a number? How in one house
    Unto the appetite and affection common
     Some time I shall sleep out, the rest I'll whistle.
    Even from the tongueless caverns of the earth,
  PROTEUS. Who wouldst thou strike?

    That is, not to bestow my youngest daughter
  wit to lose his hair.
  IMOGEN. Thanks, sir.
    thee.
    But stay the very riping of the time;
    for a week, laughter for a month, and a good jest for ever.
    I should have found it afterwards well done,
    Since all the power thereof it doth apply
    Say I am merry. Come to me again,
  ULYSSES. List!
    Was never call'd to bear my part,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Why is Time such a niggard of
    Beyond the trick of others. This Polydore,
  EGLAMOUR. Where shall I meet you?
    Be done in this and all things! I obey.
    Your friends are up and buckle on their armour.
    you anon, for some advantage to yourself.
    Gold cannot come amiss were she a devil.
    With too much urging your pernicious lives,
  LENNOX. May't please your Highness sit.
    Thine by thy beauty being false to me.
  LADY MACBETH. A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight.
                         and soldiers
    Let not the sound of shallow fopp'ry enter
    And yet we have but trivial argument,


    Which daily she was bound to proffer. This
    Call me before th' exactest auditors
  THERSITES. With too much blood and too little brain these two may
    This inundation of mistemp'red humour
    we have ten proofs to one that blood hath the victory. I am sorry
    our wills. If the balance of our lives had not one scale of
    Stamp'd in gold; but that's insculp'd upon.
    Then brook abridgment; and your eyes advance,
    Here is the best and safest passage in?
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. How now! which of your hips has the most profound
     Of my obscured course- and [reads] 'shall find time
  

  SUFFOLK. But, in my mind, that were no policy:
    Is full of virtue, bounty, worth, and qualities
    If thou didst fear to break an oath with Him,
  ANTONIO. Believe me, no; I thank my fortune for it,
  PETRUCHIO. Petruchio is my name, Antonio's son,
  MAECENAS. We have cause to be glad that matters are so well
  SHALLOW. Peter Bullcalf o' th' green!
             Enter SIR ANDREW, SIR TOBY, and FABIAN
  ROSALINE. It is not so. Ask them how many inches
    Where fadom line could never touch the ground,
    And hold no longer out.

  FIRST LORD. I'll keep you company.                      Exeunt
    How bravely thou becom'st thy bed! fresh lily,
    To keep mine honour from corruption,

    Or scant our former having in despite,
  CLEOPATRA. Sir, I will eat no meat; I'll not drink, sir;
      Thy natural magic and dire property
  PEMBROKE. Then I, as one that am the tongue of these,
    How much of his displeasure. [Aside] Yet I'll move him
    Have I my pillow left unpress'd in Rome,
    his life.- Away with him! He has a familiar under his tongue; he
  Fran. Bernardo?
    To seek the beauteous eye of heaven to garnish,
    said thou hadst a fine wit: 'True,' said she, 'a fine little
  KING. Too bitter is thy jest.

  KING HENRY. I prithee, peace,
    Seems much unequal. He's married to Octavia.
  DUKE. Against all sense you do importune her.
    Why then defy each other, and pell-mell
  But hath his bound, in earth, in sea, in sky.
    When we are so unsecret to ourselves?
    In personal action, yet prodigious grown
  LE BEAU. Fair Princess, you have lost much good sport.
    hujus. Well, what is your accusative case?
    To all our subjects. Set we forward; let  
    My Nell, I take my leave- and, master sheriff,
    You were best meddle with buck-washing.  

  WESTMORELAND. How smooth and even they do bear themselves,
    Bear hateful memory, poor Enobarbus did

  Thou hast no husband yet, nor I no wife.
    assay me? Why, he hath not been thrice in my company!
    To meet the least occasion that may give me
    Cassio knows you not. I'll not be far from you. Do you find some
        drunk; and he enters with a drum before him and
  BRUTUS. How many times shall Caesar bleed in sport,
     Now, gods, stand up for bastards!
    Have lost their quality; and that this day
  THIRD MESSENGER. O, no; wherein Lord Talbot was
    And her quietus is to render thee.
Enter DUKE, VIOLA, CURIO, and OTHERS
    That labour on the bosom of this sphere
  CRESSIDA. This morning, uncle.
    Unsafe the while, that we
  CHRISTOPHER. At Pembroke, or at Ha'rford west in Wales.
    Led on by bloody youth, guarded with rags,
    Therefore away with us to Killingworth.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. It is the devil.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    an epigram? No. If a man will be beaten with brains, 'a shall
ANGELO. Even just the sum that I do owe to you
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  QUEEN MARGARET. And turns the sun to shade-alas! alas!
    For I myself will hunt this wolf to death.            Exeunt
              Thy spite on mortal flies.
    To lift shrewd steel against our golden crown,
SCENE III.
    More free from peril than the envious court?
  CHIRON. For that I am prepar'd and full resolv'd,
  ROSALIND. I care not if I have. It is my study
    It mourns that painting and usurping hair

    King's coming down the hill; 'tis going to the King's exchequer.
  Edg. Well pray you, father.
  PHILARIO. Gentlemen, enough of this. It came in too suddenly; let
  TITUS. We cannot take this for answer, sir.
  THIRD LORD. Will't hold? Will't hold?
  Edg. Hail, gentle sir.
    To other friends; and so farewell, Sir Michael.
    Not to be other than one thing, not moving
    And his own courses will denote him so  
  DESDEMONA. Why then tomorrow night, or Tuesday morn,
    The winds did sing it to me; and the thunder,
  MENAS. Nor what I have done by water.
    Of prouder stuff than that of Beatrice.
  PHILARIO, Italian, friend to Posthumus

    Enlink'd to waste and desolation?
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  IAGO. Is't possible, my lord?
    Whom for this time we pardon. We enjoin thee,
    Near to the walls, by some apparent sign
     Shake patiently my great affliction off.
    Of my instruction hast thou nothing bated
    And say a soldier, Dian, told thee this:
  CORIOLANUS. Think upon me? Hang 'em!  
     Which he intends to Lear and to Cordelia-
    taught me more wit than ever I learn'd before in my life;  
                                                [Ghost beckons.]  
     Ere they have done their mischief. Where's thy drum?
Enter Edgar and Gloucester.
    By the rebound of yours, a grief that smites
    you would tell me of a mess of porridge.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. And quick Berowne hath plighted faith to me.
    Better far off than near, be ne'er the near.
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. As well as I am able. The rich stream
  MARIA. Get ye all three into the box-tree. Malvolio's coming down
    That slily glided towards your Majesty,
     And bring him to our eye. [Exit an Officer.] What can man's

    Upon the next live creature that it sees.
    busines
  MACDUFF. And I must be from thence!
  Straight after did I meet him with a chain.
    Should be without regard. What's done is done.  
    in the world, I will hold a long distance. My duty to you.
  WARWICK. My brother was too careless of his charge.
    But there's no remedy.
  Fal. You rogue, here's lime in this sack too! There is nothing but
    Look into these affairs see this main end-
  OLD ATHENIAN. Therefore he will be, Timon.
SCENE II.
    And if on earth he do not merit it,
    As full as thy report?

  SECOND LORD. [Aside] If his wit had been like him that broke it, it
  AUTOLYCUS. Your affairs there, what, with whom, the condition of
  CYMBELINE. Well,
    But find supply immediate. Get you gone;
  Who, every word by all my wit being scann'd,
    losses!  
    be loath to fall into my dreams again. I will therefore tarry in
    Against a falling fabric. Will you hence,

    know me? Come, come, I know thou wast set on to this.
  FALSTAFF. Pistol, did you pick Master Slender's purse?
    stripes I have received, which are mighty ones and millions.
  MARCUS. Titus, prepare thy aged eyes to weep,
    If yet her brother's pardon be come hither;
    Look out, and speak to friends. Th' Athenians
  LUCENTIO. O, yes, I saw sweet beauty in her face,
  SHEPHERD. An't please you, sir, to undertake the business for us,
    Which beasts would cough at. Thy palate then did deign
  KING HENRY. Come Margaret; God, our hope, will succour us.
    Was he not born of woman? The spirits that know
    For of no right, nor colour like to right,
    Talkest thou nothing but of ladies?
  ESCALUS. No, sir, nor I mean it not.
                         [Lifts up the arras and sees Polonius.]
  ARTHUR. Ah, none but in this iron age would do it!
     But misery. I know 'tis from Cordelia,
    Their talk at table, and their thanks at end;
    And many moe corrivals and dear men
  Gon. Holla, holla!
    And, if not so, how should I wrong a brother?
    This deed unshapes me quite, makes me unpregnant
    I know you wise; but yet no farther wise
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Sir John, you loiter here too long, being you are to
    That she was false. O, she was heavenly true!
    justice. Yet had he framed to himself, by the instruction of his
    Or what is now receiv'd. I witness to
Scene III.
  CAPHIS. Please it your lordship, he hath put me off
    Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers- if the rest of my
    Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
  
     Strive to be interest; what can you say to draw
  Ham. Of nothing. Bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
                Enter Malcolm and Donalbain.
    Good gentleman!- the wrongs I have done thee stir
    Phebe did write it.
    To murder me and my good Lord of Gloucester.
    shalt hear me.
    To give this day a crown to mighty Caesar.
    My lodging out.  [To a SERVANT]  Give him a livery
  SEBASTIAN. By your patience, no. My stars shine darkly over me; the
  DESDEMONA. In sooth, you are to blame.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Shot from the deadly level of a gun,
  Ber. See, it stalks away!
      Unite comutual in most sacred bands.
  OCTAVIUS. According to his virtue let us use him
    Oft our displeasures, to ourselves unjust,
    Nor look upon the iron angrily;
    And you, Prince Dauphin, with all swift dispatch,
    In complete glory she reveal'd herself;
    Know man from man, dispute his own estate?
    Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
    I care not what, so it be wholesome food.
  LEWIS. stay we now? These soldiers shall be levied;
  KING. We thank you, maiden;
    That I gainsay my deed, how may he wound,
  Believed her eyes when they t'assail begun,
  KING HENRY. How now! What means this, herald? know'st thou not
  AGUECHEEK. Nay, let him alone. I'll go another way to work with
    another trick, never come in my sight more.

    This sorrow that I have by right is yours;
  FIRST KEEPER. Ay, here's a deer whose skin's a keeper's fee.
    For such an injury would vex a very saint;
    Thomas of Norfolk, what say'st thou to this?
    Women are soft, mild, pitiful, and flexible:
    Therefore, that I may conquer fortune's spite
  Gilding the object whereupon it gazeth,
  Laer. Well, again!
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  FERDINAND. I warrant you, sir,
  Beat. O, God help me! God help me! How long have you profess'd
    The ape is dead, and I must conjure him.
    gone, far gone! And truly in my youth I suff'red much extremity
    The world's great snare uncaught?
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  ISABELLA. To speak so indirectly I am loath;
         "B mi" Bianca, take him for thy lord-
    an old lady's loose gown! I am withered like an old apple John.
  BASSANIO. This is Signior Antonio.
    His little kingdom of a forced grave.
    Too much to know is to know nought but fame;
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. 'Tis woeful.
    In her prophetic fury sew'd the work;
  COMINIUS. He'll shake
    stockings thou hast- viz., these, and those that were thy
Enter IMOGEN and PISANIO
    I dare adventure to be sent to th' Tow'r.
    We should take root here where we sit, or sit
    Costly apparel, tents, and canopies,
    That now thou tirest on, how thy memory  
    swear't. Tut, there's life in't, man.
    Whilst I propose the self-same words to the

    Put on with holy prayers; and 'tis spoken,
  Some other mistress hath thy sweet aspects;
  POLIXENES. By whom, Camillo?
            appellant, in armour, and a HERALD
    And, in a word, for far behind his worth

    to the crown;
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
  King. Yea, there thou mak'st me sad, and mak'st me sin
  MRS. FORD. 'Tis not so, I hope.
  2. Serv. Let's follow the old Earl, and get the bedlam

    my friends else? Why have you that charitable title from
    Which you have cited, you must buy that peace
    endowments had been tabled by his side, and I to peruse him by
                         Enter BARDOLPH and PAGE
                                                    Attendants].
  FLUTE. Nay, faith, let not me play a woman; I have a beard coming.
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    close to the ground, and list if thou canst hear the tread of
    With gold on lasting pillars: in one voyage
  Now in the stirring passage of the day,


  DUCHESS. Where then, alas, may I complain myself?
    as is thyself.
  
    soldier keep his oath?
    Be made as soft as yours, and let their palates
    Myself have often heard him say and swear

    Become a deluge, overflow'd and drown'd;
    or put the moon in his pocket, we will pay him tribute for light;
    Her height, forsooth, she hath prevail'd with him.
     pocket? The quality of nothing hath not such need to hide

  But these particulars are not my measure,
    their amity: Octavia is of a holy, cold, and still conversation.
  MALCOLM. My countryman, but yet I know him not.
    And Julia herself have brought it hither.
    A mother hourly coining plots, a wooer  
    the forest.
  Rey. Well, my lord.
    An evil soul producing holy witness  
     (Which I can call but now) I have heard strange news.
    That may to thee do ease, and, race to me,
  Ham. I mean, my head upon your lap?
  LIGARIUS. I am not sick, if Brutus have in hand
    Man is but an ass if he go about to expound this dream. Methought
  Compare them with the bett'ring of the time,
    To your most gracious hands, that are the substance
    Sits in grim majesty to fright the world.
    ALCIBIADES, an Athenian captain
    That she which marries you must marry me,
  THERSITES. A wonder!
  LEONTES. It shall be possible. Swear by this sword
    a buck of the first head.
    With Pindarus his bondman, on this hill.
  GENTLEWOMAN. I would not have such a heart in my bosom for the

    As signal that thou hear'st something approach.

  ANGELO. I did but smile till now.
    What I can urge against him. Although it seems,
  MENENIUS. Masters of the people,
  PROVOST. What comfort is for Claudio?
    That she should lock herself from his resort,
    These terms of treason doubled down his throat.
ACT IV. SCENE I.

    And let us choose such limbs of noble counsel,
    Hath cut her throat already. No, 'tis slander,
    But smacks of something greater than herself,

    And begin 'Why to me'-
    How much in having, or without or in-
  OTHELLO. Not?
  IAGO. I should be wise; for honesty's a fool,
  NESTOR. Peace, drums!

    So long as I could see.  

SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    Come to the Capitol.
    Defiance to the traitor, and so die?

  SECOND GENTLEMAN. I am confident.  
    Wherein he puts alms for oblivion,  
    O, where's young Talbot? Where is valiant John?
    Makes him speak fondly, like a frantic man;
     Having more man than wit about me, drew.
  LAFEU.  [Kneeling]  Pardon, my lord, for me and for my tidings.
    These words like daggers enter in mine ears.

    Quinapalus? 'Better a witty fool than a foolish wit.' God bless
    Not sleeping, to engross his idle body,
  STANLEY. My lord, good morrow; good morrow, Catesby.
    rose, in good truth, la! But, i' faith, you have drunk too much
    He tells thee so himself.
  CAESAR. The time of universal peace is near.

    That marry wives. Tell me, how if my brother,
  KING EDWARD. But stay thee- 'tis the fruits of love I mean.
    To cut off those that have offended Him.
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS like a satyr, with OTHERS as fairies

    Till twice five summers have enrich'd our fields
    match have you made with this jest of the drawer? Come, what's
    And you the blacker devil!
  SUFFOLK. And this withal.                         [Kisses her]
    For he himself is subject to his birth.
    He's lov'd of the distracted multitude,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Went'st not thou to her for purse of ducats?
  QUEEN MARGARET. Off with his head, and set it on York gates;
    And now loud-howling wolves arouse the jades
    [To the PAGE]  And welcome, my tall fellow. Come, Sir John.

  PUCK.          On the ground
    And utters it again when God doth please.
    Look ye yonder, niece; is't not a gallant man too, is't not? Why,
    Whether our kinsman come to see his friends.
    Who is it that hath died for this offence?
    Such bold hostility, teaching his duteous land
    Like one that means his proper harm- in manacles,
  GLOUCESTER. Well thought upon; I have it here about me.
  DESDEMONA. By my troth, I am glad on't.
    With dead men hurt behind, and cowards living

    That which none else can utter. By this marriage
  
  KING. Art thou so confident? Within what space
  CHARMIAN. O, quietness, lady!
    Who, much enforced, shows a hasty spark
    May safely come to him and be resolved
    Make the prize light.  [To FERDINAND]  One word more; I


    Let the supposed fairies pinch him sound,
    On our entreaties, to amend your fault!
    thou canst. You are straight enough in the shoulders; you care
OLIVER'S house; FREDERICK'S court; and the Forest of Arden
               MARCUS, and their friends go up into the balcony]
    were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your
    To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
    Even as an adder when she doth unroll
  QUEEN KATHARINE. My lord, I dare not make myself so guilty,
  KING RICHARD. Well you deserve. They well deserve to have
    I speak no more than every one doth know.
    How I came by the crown, O God, forgive;
    have vizards for you all; you have horses for yourselves.
  ROSALIND. Say 'a day' without the 'ever.' No, no, Orlando; men are
    I thought to have told thee of it; but I fear'd
    Art thou certain this is true? Is't most certain?
    More worth than any man; men, that she is
  KING RICHARD. My crown I am; but still my griefs are mine.
    The herd hath more annoyance by the breeze
    Dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey.
    my mother. Therefore no more, but to the matter! My mother, you  

    That after-hours with sorrow chide us not!
    And bade him follow. So indeed he did.  
    And be, like them, to Percy troublesome.
  LAFEU. Sirrah, your lord and master's married; there's news for
    By all the laws of war y'are privileg'd.
    May cement their divisions, and bind up
  FIRST LORD. I hear there is an overture of peace.
    Be general leprosy! Breath infect breath,
    If the redress will follow, thou receivest
    And instantly unlock my fortunes here.
     Nor tell tales of thee to high-judging Jove.
    With full and holy rite be minist'red,
    Who, like a boar too savage, doth root up
    And speak off half a dozen dang'rous words,
    Contempt his scornful perspective did lend me,
    'Tis love I bear thy glories makes me speak.
  REIGNIER. To whom?
PUBLIUS, SEMPRONIUS, and CAIUS, with bows
    Heaping confusion on their own heads thereby!
SCENE II.
            At his head a grass-green turf,
  FIRST LORD. He's opposite to humanity. Come, shall we in
    And in her heart she scorns our poverty;
    Your hands than mine are quicker for a fray;
  CRESSIDA. Come, come, beshrew your heart! You'll ne'er be good,  
    Send to me in the morning, and I'll send it;
  Ham. Does it not, thinks't thee, stand me now upon-
    Did verily bear blood?
  POSTHUMUS. O that I had her here to tear her limb-meal!
    To set his sense on the attentive bent,
    must let you understand I think myself in better plight for
    And there it is in writing fairly drawn.

    Yet, Derby, notwithstanding she's your wife

    And if you cannot, best you stop your ears.
    But yet thou shalt have freedom. So, so, so.
    A world of earthly blessings to my soul,

    The wind-shaked surge, with high and monstrous mane,
    As this world goes, to pass for honest.
  ANTONY. The April's in her eyes. It is love's spring,
    The pale companion is not for our pomp.     Exit PHILOSTRATE
    It is a surplus of your grace, which never
    He then that is not furnish'd in this sort
  
    Feasts are too proud to give thanks to the gods.
    And ask him why, that hour of fairy revel,
  ANTONY. To him again. Tell him he wears the rose
    a married man or a bachelor? Then, to answer every man directly  
  What means this jest? I pray you, master, tell me.
    For most it caught me, the celestial habits-
  VALENTINE. Some sixteen months, and longer might have stay'd,
    Till Angiers and the right thou hast in France,
    For all the treasure that thine uncle owes.
    Write till your ink be dry, and with your tears
    If you have heard your general talk of Rome
  John. I will disparage her no farther till you are my witnesses.
    and of other wooers.
    Chanting faint hymns to the cold fruitless moon.
    Swift-winged with desire to get a grave,
  HOSTESS. Throw me in the channel! I'll throw thee in the channel.
    the wars to grace himself, at his return into London, under the
    wives; and then give them great meals of beef and iron and steel;
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  CYMBELINE. Attend you here the door of our stern daughter?
    Men are not still the same; 'twas time and griefs

    Commend me to one Hubert, with your King;
    I'll not endure it. You forget yourself
  FALSTAFF. He that buckles himself in my belt cannot live in less.
  Friar. O, then I see that madmen have no ears.
    So say we too, but not by Edward's wife;  
    me stay the growth of his beard, if thou delay me not the
    Now is the day we long have looked for;
    Smiling at grief. Was not this love indeed?
    nothing, like Diana in the fountain, and I will do that when you

    We'll keep no great ado- a friend or two;
    Whereof the root was fix'd in virtue's ground,
              For such a guest is meet.

    And make it but a shadow, as I am.
            But let them go,
    the third time; he put it the third time by; and still as he
  IACHIMO. I'll deny nothing.
    Save mine, which hath desir'd to see thee more;
  KING JOHN. Hubert, away with him; imprison him;
  HERMIA. O cross! too high to be enthrall'd to low.
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  KING. That more than all the world I did respect her.
  In gentle numbers time so idly spent,
    punishment?

  Thus is his cheek the map of days outworn,
    Scarcely have coveted what was mine own,
  Doug. Yea, or to-night.
    and to rejoice in his triumph.
             To sweep the dust behind the door.
    Nor curstness grow to th' matter.  
    When the alarum were struck than idly sit
    it not?
  Forgot upon your dearest love to call,  
    Attested by the holy close of lips,
    Such outward things dwell not in my desires.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
    The wronged Duke of Milan, Prospero.
    It looks a little paler; 'tis a day
    Be merry, and employ your chiefest thoughts
  MRS. PAGE. Why, Sir John, do you think, though we would
    How many years a mortal man may live.
                          Enter DENNIS  

    Take all his company along with him.

    And now, instead of mounting barbed steeds
    Because she will admit no kind of suit-
    Aboard my galley I invite you all.
    Therefore, my Lord Protector, give consent
     I do forgive thee.
  Met us again and, madly bent on us,
    Consent, and for thy honour give consent,
    should end it.
  ROSALINE. Well then, I am the shooter.
    I do in birth deserve her, and in fortunes,
  OXFORD. Then Warwick disannuls great John of Gaunt,
    But to go hang my head all at one side
    As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
  Who with his fear is put beside his part,
  HOLOFERNES. I Will something affect the letter, for it argues
  DUKE. Stay, sir; stay awhile.
    of faith that all that look on him love him; and on that vice in
    Until the white rose that I wear be dy'd

    Than all the complete armour that thou wear'st!
   Faints.  
    of the court how I have been transformed, and how my
    Upon the pashed corses of the kings
    If you'll confess he brought home worthy prize-
  PAULINA. Good my lord, forbear.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
  HOSTESS. It is more than for some, my lord; it is for all- all I
    eyes are almost set in thy head.
  FLORIZEL. We are not, sir, nor are we like to be;  
  KING JOHN. In us that are our own great deputy
  FOURTH CITIZEN. Are you a married man or a bachelor?
    And say 'This man's a flatterer'? If one be,
  Sex. Master Constable, you go not the way to examine. You must call
  Corn. If he be taken, he shall never more
    be a sect or scion.
    Therefore, dear boy, mount on my swiftest horse,
Enter three WATCHMEN, to guard the KING'S tent
  ABERGAVENNY. As the Duke said,
  Ros. Then thus she says: your behaviour hath struck her into
    For such things in a false disloyal knave
    As well possess'd; my love is more than his;
  MOPSA. He hath paid you all he promis'd you. May be he has paid you
  Oph. My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
  MENENIUS. Return to th' tribunes.
    Ah, tutor, look where bloody Clifford comes!
  PISANIO. She can scarce be there yet.
    My state was nothing, I should then have told you  
  EVANS. It is spoke as a Christians ought to speak.
    I have a sonnet that will serve the turn
    That Cassio's not alive.
    Which makes me sweat with wrath. Come on, my fellows.
  PORTIA. Come on, Nerissa, I have work in hand
                                          [Giving it to PERDITA]
                                         Exit servant with PETER
    To Lucio] You, sirrah, that knew me for a fool, a coward,  
  ANTONY. Vanish, or I shall give thee thy deserving
  Other Lords, Gentlemen, Ladies, Officers, Servants, Shepherds,


  Kent. This way, my lord.
                       Enter musicians
  OLIVER. Get you with him, you old dog.
    Moe than you rob. Take wealth and lives together;
    My fear to hope, my sorrows unto joys,
    for a tyrant. I could play Ercles rarely, or a part to tear a cat
                 The bodies of Goneril and Regan are brought in.
    Meanwhile must be an earnest motion  
    To bid me trudge.
    No, not the Duke's.
  Claud. If my passion change not shortly, God forbid it should be
THE END
    Will but remember me what a deal of world
  Ham. From top to toe?
    word with you.
  Oph. Will he tell us what this show meant?
ANGELO. I knew he was not in his perfect wits.
                                               [Exit Gentleman.]
  SIR JOHN FALSTAFF
    For it is as the air, invulnerable,
  OTHELLO.              So please your Grace, my ancient;
    On Tuesday last to listen after news.
    And grumbling York; and not the least of these
  Beat. So I would not he should do me, my lord, lest I should prove
            You and you no cross shall part;
  With circumstance and oaths so to deny
  VALENTINE. Not so fair, boy, as well-favour'd.
    Thy knee bussing the stones- for in such busines  
    From where you do remain let paper show.
    Take this of me: Lucrece was not more chaste
  EMILIA.                                    Alas, who knows?
    O heavy times, begetting such events!
                           SCENE IX.
  WARWICK. Nay, rather, wilt thou draw thy forces hence,
    Accuse him home and home. For my poor self,
  YORK. A dreadful lay! Address thee instantly.
    Take your commission; hie you to your bands;
  DUKE. Let me speak like yourself, and lay a sentence
    Falls upon thee in a more fairer sort;  
  MENENIUS. I'll undertake't;  
     What comfort to this great decay may come
    Was in the wreck; and but he's something stain'd
  PAULINA. I pray now, call her.
    'When he swears oaths, bid him drop gold, and take it;
    If Proteus like your journey when you come,
  YORK. Should I do so, I should belie my thoughts.
  DUCHESS. Welcome is banishment; welcome were my death.

    Hath turn'd his balls to gun-stones, and his soul
    And say 'Thrice welcome, drowned Viola!'
    to me, that this is no time to lend money, especially upon bare
  TROILUS. Fie, fie, my brother!
    What though I be not so in grace as you,
    Bassanio presently will go aboard;
    choice. She must have change, she must; therefore put money in
    You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
    Lay be these-
    I'll bear thee hence; and let them fight that will,
    Creaking my shoes on the plain masonry,  
  CINNA. What is my name? Whither am I going? Where do I dwell? Am I
    Flaminius, honest Flaminius, you are very respectively welcome,
    O, these deliberate fools! When they do choose,
    Have shaken Edward from the regal seat
                            [The LADIES turn their backs to him]
    'Tis sport to maul a runner.
    And keep us all in servile fearfulness.              Exeunt.

    this; I shall be sent for in private to him. Look you, he must
    More honourable state, more courtship lives
    I do beseech you send for some of them.
    And where's that valiant crook-back prodigy,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE

    Why, when, I say? Nay, good sweet Kate, be merry.
    That with your other noble parts you'll suit
    'Twixt his unkindness and his kindness- th' one
    Dispraise the thing that you desire to buy;
    Dismask'd, their damask sweet commixture shown,
      Where your Majesty demands that the King of France, having any
    The wise and fool, the artist and unread,
    To bitterest enmity; so fellest foes,
    Touch me alike; th' are breath I not believe in.
  DUKE. Not of this country, though my chance is now

    Hast thou not spoke like thunder on my side,
  SHEPHERD. O, my heart!

  OTHELLO. Away!                                                Exit.
  Osr. Rapier and dagger.
    Arraigning his unkindness with my soul;
    This night I hold an old accustom'd feast,
    As thou lov'st Silvia, though not for thyself,
  SECOND LORD. Lord Timon's mad.
    Her heart is but o'ercharg'd; she will recover.
     If ever I return to you again,
    Of the wars' surfeits to go rove with one
                                                 Witches vanish.
    the commonwealth.
    But justly as you have exceeded all promise,
    This his good melancholy oft began,
    For I was spoke to, with Sir Henry Guildford,
    shoulder to my heel with no greater a run but my head and my
    Who prays continually for Richmond's good.
    I will not hold thee long. If I do live,
                                                       Exit DAVY
  Tybalt, nephew to Lady Capulet.
    When Pistol lies, do this; and fig me, like
  SOOTHSAYER. Beware the ides of March.
    Mordake, and a thousand bluecaps more. Worcester is stol'n away
    And since your coming hither have done enough
    As these poor pickaxes can dig; and when
    The deputy elected by the Lord.
    To you our swords have leaden points, Mark Antony;
    Let us address to tend on Hector's heels.
    I am that merry wanderer of the night.
    those things. Well, God's above all, and there be souls must be
     Thy banish'd trunk be found in our dominions,
    For Margaret my queen, and Clifford too,
    Talbot is taken, whom we wont to fear;  
    me my pains, to have taken it away yourself. She adds, moreover,

    that he keep his vow and his oath; if he be perjur'd, see you
SCENE III.
    As doth the blushing discontented sun
  
  BERTRAM. And I will do so.
    I thank you for your pains; spend this for me.
                       Enter BRAKENBURY
             [A short alarum; then enter the town with soldiers]
    The guard, ho! O, dispatch me!
    thus cramm'd in the basket, a couple of Ford's knaves, his  
Enter KING RICHARD
    Already at my house.
    Should slip so grossly, both in the heat of blood
    That sways the earth this climate overlooks,
  FALSTAFF. What, is the old king dead?
  TROILUS. You understand me not that tell me so.
  Ham. O God, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry?
    This seal'd-up counsel. There's thy guerdon; go.
    But it straight starts you.
  ISABELLA. But might you do't, and do the world no wrong,
  THIRD WITCH. We'll answer.
    Their mutinies and revolts, wherein they show'd
    And wilt encounter with my wrath, say so;
  And Dromio my man did bring them me.
    Though they themselves did suffer by't, behold
  MOTH. Why tender juvenal? Why tender juvenal?
  DUKE. O place and greatness! Millions of false eyes
    And with ridiculous and awkward action-
  TALBOT. Heavens, can you suffer hell so to prevail?

  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Come, come, we know your meaning,
   Hear him debate of commonwealth affairs,
  PANDARUS. Quoth she 'Here's but two and fifty hairs on your chin,
  DESDEMONA. Why do you speak so startingly and rash?
    Who strongly hath set footing in this land.
    [Reads]  'They have press'd a power, but it is not known
                                             Lays down a dagger.
    Attend upon Cominius to these wars.
    I must be one of these same dumb wise men,
    Let him be told so; lest, perchance, he think
    well, and wants nothing i' th' world; but yet she is not well.
    That e'er was heard or read!
    strange fish! Were I in England now, as once I was, and
  LUCIO. Faith, my lord, I spoke it but according to the trick.
  CAIUS. Ha, do I perceive dat? Have you make-a de sot of us,


    tear the cases of their eyes; there was speech in their dumbness,
  DULL. Nor understood none neither, sir.
  CURTIS. There's fire ready; and therefore, good Grumio, the news?
    That to my home I will no more return
  PUCELLE. Of all base passions fear is most accurs'd.
    By us perform'd before. Most dearly welcome!

    To women of all fashion; lastly, hurried
    Therefore fasten your ear on my advisings; to the love I have in  
    And danger serves among them.
  POSTHUMUS. What lady would you choose to assail?

  Hor. Ay, my lord, And of calveskins too.
    No princely commendations to my king?
                                  Exit [Cornwall, led by Regan].
    London?
  Shall will in others seem right gracious,
    I will with patience hear, and find a time
Milan. The DUKE'S palace
  PETRUCHIO. Father, and wife, and gentlemen, adieu.
  CHARLES. For prisoners ask'st thou? Hell our prison is.

  SEBASTIAN. Thou dost snore distinctly;
    poor old man; but I came from her, Master Brook, like a
    O'erglanced the articles; pleaseth your Grace
  YORK. I pray you, uncle, give me this dagger.
  Fal. 'Tis not due yet. I would be loath to pay him before his day.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>

    But, gentle people, give me aim awhile,
  Urs. The pleasant'st angling is to see the fish
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    Of healths five fadom deep; and then anon
  ARIEL. Past the mid season.
    Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied,
  Which my heart knows the wide world's common place?

    And vent it for a mock'ry? Here is one:
  KING RICHARD. You speak too bitterly.
    Very good orators, when they are out, they will spit; and for
    Than a wild dedication of yourselves
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Stay there, sir,
  GLOUCESTER. Wert thou not banished on pain of death?
    And yet shalt thou be safe? Such safety finds
  BOLINGBROKE. These differences shall all rest under gage
  COSTARD. Your servant, and Costard.
  PHILARIO. What means do you make to him?
  PRINCE HENRY. O vanity of sickness! Fierce extremes
  ANTONY. I will reward thee
  RODERIGO. Most reverend signior, do you know my voice?
     Here I disclaim all my paternal care,  
    I would I were the first that ever dissembled in such a gown. I
  EDWARD. His name that valiant duke hath left with thee;
    Him that thou magnifi'st with all these tides,
    Now, Iras, what think'st thou?
    daughter of Gerard de Narbon?
                    And sword and shield
    By th' mass, so did we all. I thank you, Richard:
    As offer'd mercy is. What was the last
    God will revenge it. Come, lords, will you go
    This shoulder was ordain'd so thick to heave;
  EMILIA. I have laid those sheets you bade me on the bed.
    That this is from some mistress, some remembrance.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. So doth the cony struggle in the net.
    The morning wears, 'tis time we were at church.
    To burn this night with torches. Know, my hearts,  
    Must Edward fall, which peril heaven forfend.  
    Even to madness. 'Tis here, but yet confused:
    Fellow, be gone: I cannot brook thy sight;  
    My clerk hath some good comforts too for you.
    Or more than common fear of Clifford's rigour,
    A little touch of Harry in the night.
    I'll beat him, and if I could but meet him again.
  SLENDER. I am not a-hungry, I thank you, forsooth. Go,
  PANDARUS. Mark him; note him. O brave Troilus! Look well upon him,
     All's not offence that indiscretion finds
    Why, so didst thou. Seem they grave and learned?
    If I command him, follows my appointment.

                     FESTE'S SONG
    His very air, that I should call you brother,
    off these secrets, but you must be tittle-tattling before all our  
    The mere despair of surgery, he cures,
  CHARMIAN. Peace, peace, Iras!
    Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
  FABIAN. I will not give my part of this sport for a pension of
  CLIFFORD. Had I thy brethren here, their lives and thine
    Your honour with your form.
  SECOND CITIZEN. We will be revenged.
  AEDILE. Very well.
  Cap. What noise is this? Give me my long sword, ho!
  SHALLOW. Where's Shadow?
ACT_3|SC_12
    April when they woo, December when they wed: maids are May when
    son.
  IAGO. Nay, you must forget that.
    That doting on his own obsequious bondage
    That he may furnish and instruct great teachers
    To be his purveyor; but he rides well,
    Speak, Captain, for his life, and I will thee requite.
    As yet the lamentation of the French
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. 'Tis full of thy foul wrongs.
    A madman's mercy bid thee run away.
    But now the substance shall endure the like
    Pisanio might have kill'd thee at the heart,
    themselves to common players (as it is most like, if their means
    Thus stands the case: you know our King, my brother,
    different names-sure, more!-and these are of the second
                     127
  MACBETH. Which of you have done this?
  Guil. But we both obey,
    And though I make this marriage for my peace,
    Which 'tis not fit you know, I not acquaint
    Next, if I be appointed for the place,
     The battle done, and they within our power,
  VIOLA. Et vous aussi; votre serviteur.
  Lear. O sides, you are too tough!
    And she as much in love, her means much less
  MESSENGER. Ambassadors from Harry King of England
  Claud. Good morrow, masters. Each his several way.
  To every place at once, and nowhere fixed,
  Edg. Give me thy arm.
    that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou hast.
    'Tis deadly sin to keep that oath, my lord,  
    And all the currents of a heady fight.
    For that it made my imprisonment a pleasure;
    Let but the commons hear this testament-
Exit.
  Which I new pay as if not paid before.
        he is
    as a partizan I could not heave.
    Who gave his blood to lime the stones together,

  DUKE OF VENICE. He shall do this, or else I do recant
    Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood
SCENE V.
    Thrust thy sharp wit quite through my ignorance,
    Or teach thy hasty spleen to do me shame,

    You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
  Smoth'red in errors, feeble, shallow, weak,
  GOWER. How now, Captain Macmorris! Have you quit the mines? Have
    But falls into abatement and low price
    We answer others' merits in our name,
    For 'tis the mind that makes the body rich;
Enter Benedick alone.
    Where ever Englishman durst set his foot.
  Lear. No.
    Let us be keen, and rather cut a little
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  Reg. Lord Edmund spake not with your lord at home?
                     LA PUCELLE, and forces
    be at hand, sir; see you do it bravely.
    To lose't or give't away were such perdition
  PAROLLES. Why, these balls bound; there's noise in it. 'Tis hard:
    To make perfumes? distil? preserve? yea, so
    And, that my love may appear plain and free,

    By Signior Angelo.
    shall bring from him. There is no more mercy in him than there is
                                         [Lays him in the tomb.]
  CAIUS LUCIUS, General of the Roman Forces
    That excellent grand tyrant of the earth
  Friar. Go hence; good night; and here stands all your state:
    And could it not enforce them to relent
                     110
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Nay, he struck so plainly I could to

    To stop the inundation of her tears,
  KATHERINA. Husband, let's follow to see the end of this ado.
    Filling the aged wrinkles in my cheeks,
    Had we done so at first, we had droven them home
                                                     [Stabs him]
    It is not that that incens'd hath incens'd the Duke:
    I have borne this business.

    Is come into the field.
    And now I should not lie-but will deserve,
    Should chance-
    Than that poor Brutus with himself at war


     In short and musty straw? Alack, alack!
  Thy self thou gav'st, thy own worth then not knowing,
  And almost thence my nature is subdued
  AUFIDIUS. I was mov'd withal.
    Christendom. What! I am not bestraught.  [Taking a pot of ale]
    Better to leave undone than by our deed
    Takes note of what is done, and, like a prophet,
    In ignorant concealment.
    Exposing it- but, O, the harder heart!
    Forgive me, Valentine; if hearty sorrow
SCENE II.
  ORLANDO. I sometimes do believe and sometimes do not:
    And make a mutual closure of our house.
    All will be ours, now bloody Talbot's slain.          Exeunt
  EDWARD, EARL OF MARCH, afterwards KING EDWARD IV, his son
          Enter KING JOHN, ARTHUR, and HUBERT
    And vanish'd from our sight.
  M. Wife. O, where is Romeo? Saw you him to-day?
    The very virtue of compassion in thee,
  CORIOLANUS. Ay.
                         Enter a SERVINGMAN
    Him he knew well, and guess'd that it was she,
    In some large measure to thy father's death
    Though little fire grows great with little wind,
    I pray you go with me.
    And take it from a heart that wishes towards you

  CAIUS. It is no matter-a ver dat. Do not you tell-a me dat I
    Hear the shrill whistle which doth order give
    For this was of much length- the vile conclusion
    From sun to sun. There is my honour's pawn;
    Or, Hubert, if you will, cut out my tongue,
  EUPHRONIUS. [Aside] Yes, like enough high-battled Caesar will
  I sigh the lack of many a thing I sought,
  Osr. Sir?
    good night--I tell this tale vilely; I should first tell thee how
    the devil guide his cudgel afterwards!
  CAMILLO. I should leave grazing, were I of your flock,

  Nor think the bitterness of absence sour,
  PROSPERO. For this, be sure, to-night thou shalt have cramps,
    To make that only true we now intend,
    The Prince will, in the perfectness of time,  
    good Signior Benedick, repair to Leonato's, commend me to him and
    To dance attendance on their lordships' pleasures,
    And bids you be advis'd there's nought in France
    Have put his knife into him.'

    Thoughts tending to content flatter themselves
  LUCIUS. Farewell, Andronicus, my noble father,
    But certainly a maid.
    And cordial to me, have I not found it
    He would not, but by gift of my chaste body
    hard, Nerissa, that I cannot choose one, nor refuse none?
  PROSPERO. By what? By any other house, or person?
    Made demonstrable here in Cyprus to him,
    that lascivious young boy the Count, have I run into this danger.

    Fie, fie! you counterfeit, you puppet you!
    Some stern untutor'd churl, and noble stock
  Prince. In both our armies there is many a soul
    Is of a constant, loving, noble nature,
 Exit
    The fresh springs, brine-pits, barren place and fertile.

    No want of conscience hold it that I call,
    With ransom of such shame. Would yet he had liv'd!
     That this remotion of the Duke and her
    Romeo, good night. I'll to my truckle-bed;
    Support him by the arm. Give me your hand,
    For has not the divine Apollo said,
    I have a father, you a daughter, lost.                  Exit
    All mortal consequences have pronounced me thus:

    Nor get a messenger to bring it thee,
    So shall each lord of Greece, from tent to tent.
  Ber. I have seen nothing.
  GOWER. Go, go: you are a couterfeit cowardly knave. Will you mock
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  EVANS. A lousy knave, to have his gibes and his mockeries!  

    We have deserv'd it.
    I' th'name of fame and honour, which dies i' th'search,
    vipers? Sweet lord, who's a-field today?
    in't that stings his nature; for on the reading it he chang'd
  SECOND LORD. It should not be, by the persuasion of his new
    She said thou wast my daughter; and thy father
  KING RICHARD. So proud that Bolingbroke was on his back!
ANGELO. The money that you owe me for the chain.
        Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, BASTARD, REIGNIER, and others
  BISHOP OF ELY. Your Grace, we think, should soonest know
            Plumpy Bacchus with pink eyne!

    A happy gentleman in blood and lineaments,
    love passing well.
    For when my outward action doth demonstrate
    We have always truly serv'd you; and beseech
    married man, he's his wife's head, and I can never cut of a
  Why lov'st thou that which thou receiv'st not gladly,
    When that your flock, assembled by the bell,

    With her who here I cannot hold on shore.
    to hear it.
    I tender not thy beauteous princely daughter.
  O no, thy love though much, is not so great,
  AGRIPPA. Retire. We have engag'd ourselves too far.
  Till I have brought him to his wits again,
  Hor. What is't, my lord? We will.
  When forty winters shall besiege thy brow,
    And made a brine-pit with our bitter tears?
         When icicles hang by the wall,
    Valiant, wise, remorseful, well accomplish'd.
    Hero.

    Did not thy hue bewray whose brat thou art,
    Of her that threw it. Noble she was, and thought
    Though in pure truth it was corrupt and naught-
    Why such unplausive eyes are bent, why turn'd on him?
  Beat. In spite of your heart, I think. Alas, poor heart! If you

  LUCIO. Hail, virgin, if you be, as those cheek-roses

    have no heads.
    Whom sometime I have laugh'd with. Let your Highness
  SALERIO. His hour is almost past.
    Where hadst thou it?
    The execution of my big-swol'n heart
    I would not have your free and noble nature
    Deep night, dark night, the silent of the night,
    But, my good lord, this boy is forest-born,
        Her salt tears fell from her, and soften'd the stones-"
    But now I find I had suborn'd the witness,


PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    herself, without other advantage, may lawfully make title to as
    He that dares most but wag his finger at thee.
    That cannot do that feat, you'll leave yourself
    When rather from our acts we them derive
  Rom. What less than doomsday is the Prince's doom?
    Send one presently to Sir Toby.
    My army but a weak and sickly guard;
    of your house. I promise you your kindred hath made my eyes water
  TIMON. But yet I love my country, and am not
    I'll not deny him anything I have,
    Praise her but for this her without-door form,
    Into the tumbling billows of the main.
                                                    Storm still.
  ALCIBIADES. I am thy friend, and pity thee, dear Timon.
  TIMON. The man is honest.
    And being now trimm'd in thine own desires,
  BEROWNE. I would you heard it groan.
  TRANIO. No, sir, but hear I do that he hath two:
    A phoenix that shall make all France afeard.
    The devil damn thee black, thou cream-faced loon!
    Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre
    More than a wild exposture to each chance
     [To the Fool] You, sir, more knave than fool, after your master!

SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
  BUCKINGHAM. Lord Mayor-
  Rom. Thou wast never with me for anything when thou wast not there

    Which should perceive nothing but love from us,
SCENE 2
    Nor sight of priests in holy vestments bleeding,
  Mer. O, thou art deceiv'd! I would have made it short; for I was
    Of France and England, whose very shores look pale
    farewell!
    Follow, and do me service.                            Exeunt
  HORTENSIO. Marry, sir, to get a husband for her sister.
    And his contract by deputy in France;
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    think the best way were to entertain him with hope, till
    If not, my senses, better pleas'd with madness,
      We beg your hearing patiently.                     [Exit.]
    Our Perdita is found.
    For well I wot thou hast thy mother's tongue.
  BEROWNE. You lie, you are not he.
    For live I will not if my father die.

    My chaplain to no creature living but
  OTHELLO. Good, good, the justice of it pleases, very good.
    Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness!

    Yet best beseeming me to speak the truth.
    No more to th' crown but that. Lo, who comes here?
  CAESAR. Nor must not then be yielded to in this.
    What love, thinkst thou, I sue so much to get?
    The tongues o' th' common mouth. I do despise them,
    in danger of losing.
    Either are past remedies, or, timely knowing,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    If not from hell, the devil is a niggard
    And ye shall find me thankful. Lead the way, lords;
    So shall I clothe me in a forced content
                         Enter MARDIAN
    I am not yet instructed.
    Yet, to recover them, would lose my life.
    And had I first been put to speak my mind,
                 Ghost cries under the stage.
    I would not be a queen.
  Osw. Why, what a monstrous fellow art thou, thus to rail on one
    For then my guiltless blood must cry against 'em.
    Why speak'st not? Speak, man. What's thy name?
    Yet you desire to marry.
                                               [Exit Attendant.]
    This part of his conjoins with my disease
    Should be inheritrix in Salique land;
                           Enter a MESSENGER
    thrasonical. He is too picked, too spruce, too affected, too odd,
    heads; if this law hold in Vienna ten year, I'll rent the fairest
  Arch. And so there is; but yet the King hath drawn
    brow? or do you play the flouting Jack, to tell us Cupid is a
    Speak, Iachimo. I had you down, and might
  AUFIDIUS. I know thee not. Thy name?
    And though he came our enemy, remember
  ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Come on, sir knave, have done your foolishness,
    And thou shalt be canoniz'd, Cardinal;  
    half-kirtles.
    Of all the trades in Rome. Look, I am going.
    one.

    You blocks, you stones, you worse than senseless things!
  AUTOLYCUS. A lie: you are rough and hairy. Let me have no lying; it
Enter Friar John to Friar Laurence.
  DUKE. Ay, and perversely she persevers so.
    With blood of thine already.
  BOATSWAIN. What, must our mouths be cold?
  CORIOLANUS. It is a part
    They will by violence tear him from your palace  

    You must translate; 'tis fit we understand them.
  QUINTUS. I am surprised with an uncouth fear;
  My mistress and her sister stays for you.
                Re-enter attendant with glass
  CAMILLO. I know not; but I am sure 'tis safer to
                             Enter Macbeth.
    What is the reason that you use me thus?
  EMILIA. Shall I go fetch your nightgown?  
    Once more, adieu; the rest let sorrow say.            Exeunt
  PAGE. 'Tis well, 'tis well; no more.
    In purity of manhood stand upright,
    And, my good friend, thy voluntary oath
    Within this hour my man shall be with thee
  Whose white weighs down the airy scale of praise;
    The slaughter of the Prince that ow'd that crown,
  Lear. What services canst thou do?

    No, my good lords, it is not that offends;
  Ham. What?
Troy. PRIAM'S palace
    With sainted vow my faults to have amended.
A Council table brought in, with chairs and stools, and placed
    And meritorious shall that hand be call'd,
    Than to work any. Will you rhyme upon't,
  GREEN. Well, he is gone; and with him go these thoughts!
    turn'd o'er many books together; he is furnished with my opinion
  HELENA. But he assails; and our virginity, though valiant in the

    But, poor old man, thou prun'st a rotten tree
  PARIS. They're come from the field. Let us to Priam's hall  
    He chides to hell, and bids the other grow
    dream. Here, here, here be my keys; ascend my chambers,
                  APEMANTUS' Grace

      A second time I kill my husband dead
    I know young bloods look for a time of rest.
    That welcome wrongs; unto bad causes swear
    Beseech you tenderly apply to her
  Hot. Now I perceive the devil understands Welsh;
  BRABANTIO. It is too true an evil: gone she is,  
    Infected as her life, she would not live
    Joy to you, Mariana! Love her, Angelo;
    I'll to the King and signify to him
  MARCUS. I have dogs, my lord,
    Look how the black slave smiles upon the father,
    Is now eclips'd, and it portends alone
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
    This heavy act with heavy heart relate.                   Exeunt.
    From him that has most cause to grieve it should be,
     Bring me but to the very brim of it,
  ROSALIND. A traveller! By my faith, you have great reason to be
    Go home to bed and, like the owl by day,
     And with presented nakedness outface
    malice, and malice forced with wit, turn him to? To an ass, were  
    measure, yet a reasonable measure in strength. If I could win a
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Pray thee, peace. Pay her the debt you owe her, and
  EMILIA. Disprove this villain, if thou be'st a man.

    Where he sits crowned in his master's spite.
    After this golden day of victory. Flourish.           Exeunt
    The smallest twine may lead me.

    Charge him too coldly. Tell him you are sure
    But mine is all as hungry as the sea,
  Now see what good turns eyes for eyes have done,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    Hold you his hands whilst I do set it on.
  Haply I think on thee, and then my state,
  LORD CLIFFORD
    Master Smooth's the silkman. I pray you, since my exion is
  CORIOLANUS. Tell me of corn!
    Gloucester, York, Buckingham, Somerset,
    We were elected theirs: Marcius is worthy
    In blood of princes; and their wounded steeds
    Purpose to answer what thou canst object.
    To whom do lions cast their gentle looks?
    And this distilled liquor drink thou off;

  CLOWN. Hilloa, loa!
    Before the Roman, nor to us hath tender'd
    Govern'd a wolf who, hang'd for human slaughter,
    ever we shed.

  HELENA. Lo, she is one of this confederacy!
    As dim and meagre as an ague's fit;
    And thy no greater father.
    Who undertakes you to your end.
    Come therefore, and to Thasos send his body;
    Had it our name, the value of one ten,
    My uncle Rivers talk'd how I did grow
  BURGUNDY. And I to this.
Then enter TITUS and HORTENSIUS
    I'll get me to a place more void and there
  VINCENTIO. Is Signior Lucentio within, sir?
    amazement how these things should be: all difficulties are but
    If once it be neglected, ten to one
 Exit

    with a head fantastically carved upon it with a knife. 'A was so
  Of his quick objects hath the mind no part,  
  ANTONY. I would they'd fight i' th' fire or i' th' air;
    Thus Eleanor's pride dies in her youngest days.
    Whose foot spurns back the ocean's roaring tides
    Either envy, therefore, or misprision
    Till either death hath clos'd these eyes of mine
  PANDARUS. Who's there? My lord Aeneas? By my troth,
  GONZALO. Was Milan thrust from Milan, that his issue
  DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER, widow of Thomas of Woodstock,
    They bring smooth comforts false, worse than true wrongs.
    From slaves that apes would beat! Pluto and hell!
    Here in the lobby.
  KING. But your legs should do it.

  THERSITES. Would the fountain of your mind were clear again, that I
    Continue in my liking? Nay, gave notice
  BEROWNE. Go, bid them prepare.
    Then, since the case so stands as now it doth,
    And bay'd about with many enemies;

        Round about her tomb they go.
    He dies that touches any of this fruit
Enter, severally, DUKE, disguised as a FRIAR, and PROVOST
    But let it be. Bring me to Antony.

    here's none will hold you. There! Love is not so great,
    Are strewings fit'st for graves. Upon their faces.  
    And shall these hands, so lately purg'd of blood,
  ACHILLES. Tell me, you heavens, in which part of his body

    Buys out the law; but 'tis not so above.
    wine, I'll thrust my knife in your mouldy chaps, an you play the
    For, by thy gracious golden, glittering gleams,
    heads?
    them? Why, so- and I know not what's spent in the search. Why,
    You shall hear from me still; the time shall not
    Ring bells aloud, burn bonfires clear and bright,
  HERMIONE. You look
    Say 'the brave Antony.'
    she hath contaminated.
  KING. The Florentines and Senoys are by th' ears;
    hourly any time this two-and-twenty years, and yet I am bewitch'd
    And I, a gasping new-deliver'd mother,
    Draws us a profit from all things we see,

    Fly not, stand still; ambition's debt is paid.
    Grows strong and great in substance and in power.
    And wear a golden sorrow.
      and others. Four stand on one side, and four on the other

    Thy plainness moves me more than eloquence,
  BUCKINGHAM. I did; with his contract with Lady Lucy,
    As doth a raven on a sick-fall'n beast,
    France; for I love France so well that I will not part with a
    Yours would I catch, fair Hermia, ere I go!
    Attending but the signal to begin.
                         Re-enter Lucius.
  BERTRAM. It is an honour 'longing to our house,
    And show'd how well you love your Prince and country.
    Usurp'd from you and your progenitors.
    Give me thy hand, Kate; I will unto Venice,
  VALENTINE. Love is your master, for he masters you;
              Through all the world bears Rosalinde.
                  Enter ROSALIND, reading a paper
    world.
  LORENZO. Well, we will leave you then till dinner-time.
  KING. Peruse them well.
    and I do believe your Majesty takes no scorn to wear the leek
  ARIEL. On the sixth hour; at which time, my lord,
    When my poor heart no measure keeps in grief;
  CLEOPATRA. That Herod's head
  SHYLOCK. I will be assur'd I may; and, that I may be assured, I
    Say how I lov'd you; speak me fair in death;
    I give thee this to dry thy cheeks withal.
    Were he the veriest antic in the world.
    With every several pleasure in the world;
     Allow obedience- if yourselves are old,
    rest; let their heads be sleekly comb'd, their blue coats brush'd

  FIRST GENTLEMAN. I think I have done myself wrong, have I not?
    And Prospero the prime duke, being so reputed

  LUCENTIO. I fly, Biondello; but they may chance to need the at
  BAPTISTA. Gentlemen, that I may soon make good
    Having my country's peace and brothers' loves.
  PATROCLUS. Here comes Thersites.
    You are the king King Edward hath depos'd;
  APEMANTUS. To knock out an honest Athenian's brains.
    How I have thought of this and of these times,
    How now, my brother!
                    [Enter Boy.]


    present time by the top and instantly break with you of it.
    In sign of league and amity with thee.
    He would not flatter Neptune for his trident,

    against a brick wall, the sun looking with a southward eye upon
    Or shall I come to you at evening mass

  SHALLOW. How now, Master Parson! Good morrow, good
    A lord of Troyan blood, nephew to Hector;
    This is dear mercy, and thou seest it not.
    I am arriv'd for fruitful Lombardy,
    Caesarion, whom they call my father's son,
                     3
  TITUS. Ha! ha!
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. But how long shall that title 'ever' last?
    Is all unpossible.
    O, what a noble combat hast thou fought
  SEBASTIAN. A match!
    Show them th' unaching scars which I should hide,

    When I, that censure him, do so offend,
  Dog. Marry, sir, I would have some confidence with you that decerns
    And must advise the Emperor for his good.
    And by whose power I well might lodge a fear
     How now? Are the horses ready?
           Enter the LORD MAYOR, ALDERMEN, and citizens
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
    From the excess of laughter. Here he comes.

    Seditious to his Grace and to the state.

    Reveal yourself to him.
    March to the bridge, it now draws toward night;
    Thou wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no other  
    strength to repent. An I have not forgotten what the inside of a
    With triumphs, mirth, and rare solemnity.
                                                        He dies.
    Our temple was he married. Rise and fade!
  IMOGEN. [Reads] 'Thy mistress, Pisanio, hath play'd the strumpet in
    flowers of Troy, I can tell you. But mark Troilus; you shall see
    Whom, though in general part we were oppos'd,
  Till I return of posting is no need.
    Therein, ye gods, you tyrants do defeat.
    of your letter I am very sick; but in the instant that your
    Relenting fool, and shallow, changing woman!
    propositions of a lover; but take a taste of my finding him, and
  DUKE SENIOR. If he, compact of jars, grow musical,
    Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
    Although the kite soar with unbloodied beak?
    Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
                          Enter a MESSENGER
    In thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose.
    Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither.
    And chop away that factious pate of his.
    Why should a man whose blood is warm within
  GLOUCESTER. Mayor, farewell; thou dost but what thou
  TRANIO. Call forth an officer.

    --I did never think that lady would have loved any man.
    And answer 'Thanks.' I duly am inform'd
  HORTENSIO. I think she'll sooner prove a soldier:
    as you have uttered words in your own, you should not pass here;
     For those that mingle reason with your passion
    Brother Petruchio, sister Katherina,
    Fill'd it with cursing cries and deep exclaims.
    Will be himself.
    Be buckled with. The over daring Talbot
  And ruined love when it is built anew  
    He brought a Grecian queen, whose youth and freshness
  Gent. Both, both, my lord.

    shall appear in me.
    Young Talbot's valour makes me smile at thee.
    Leads ancient lords and reverend Bishops on
  BIANCA. Head and butt! An hasty-witted body
    As in your royal speech.
  HORTENSIO. That's my office.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Profan'd, dishonour'd, and the third
    Would I might never stir from off this place,
    As gentle and as jocund as to jest
         Enter Lear, mad, [fantastically dressed with weeds].
  Leon. Did he break out into tears?
  BONA. Your grant or your denial shall be mine.
  IACHIMO. You are a friend, and therein the wiser. If you buy
    Do breed love's settled passions in my heart;
  Injurious distance should not stop my way,
    Have broken with the King, who hath so far


    Peering in April's front. This your sheep-shearing
    But all in vain; they had no heart to fight,
     May all the building in my fancy pluck
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF YORK, MOWBRAY, HASTINGS, and others
    I' th' midst o' th' body, idle and unactive,
    The trumpets show the Emperor is at hand.
  Hor. E'en so.
    Play'd foul play with our oaths; your beauty, ladies,
    And to your heirs forever- common pleasures,
    But, my Lord Cardinal, and you, my Lord of Suffolk,
    Why not a mother? When I said 'a mother,'
  But, sirrah, you shall buy this sport as dear
    Seeing thou hast prov'd so unnatural a father!
    With wild wood-leaves and weeds I ha' strew'd his grave,
    And tempt us not to bear above our power!
    But fare thee well, most foul, most fair! Farewell,
    soldiers in the reechy painting, sometime like god Bel's priests
     you'll give me leave, I will tread this unbolted villain into
    To fill the mouth of deep defiance up
    Carried herself towards me.
    Envied against the people, seeking means
    Attend our weightier judgment. And, not to swell our spirit,
    I'll never trouble you, if I may spy them.              Exit
    That is, to live and study here three years.
  Queen. To whom do you speak this?
  SICINIUS. It shall be to him then as our good wills:
  FIRST CITIZEN. Care for us! True, indeed! They ne'er car'd for us
     The Duke must grant me that. Besides, his picture
  FIRST SENATOR. These walls of ours
  AGRIPPA. [Aside to ENOBARBUS] Why, Enobarbus,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
    despite of my invention.
    Crack thy frail case. Apace, Eros, apace.-
         Enter AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, NESTOR, DIOMEDES,
  Which steals men's eyes and women's souls amazeth.
  ANNE. I have already.
                                                The music plays.
  PEDANT. Ay, what else? And, but I be deceived,
    You heavenly blessings, on her! This fool's speed
  WARWICK. Methinks his lordship should be humbler;
    And, to the advantage, I being here took't up.
    Than Venus, or those pamp'red animals

    Than breath or pen can give expressure to.
    To one not sociable. I am not very sick,
    have now found thee; when I lose thee again I care not; yet art
    the pie, for then the man's date is out.
    I'll have her; but I will not keep her long.  
    I scorn you not; it seems that you scorn me.
    Is that the one will help to cut the other.
  CAMILLO. I have heard, sir, of such a man, who hath a daughter of
    Thou know'st 'tis common. All that lives must die,
    Turning with splendour of his precious eye
    pack-thread.
    The empire of the sea; our slippery people,
  ISABELLA. O, 'tis the cunning livery of hell
    Will money buy'em?
    Shall be the maws of kites.                      Exit Ghost.
THE END
    As when thou grew'st thyself.
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
    Greater than that.
    prate to me of the wildness of his youth and the feats he hath
    And bless it to all fair prosperity.  
    Ourself, and Bushy, Bagot here, and Green,
    dear account. As you hear of me, so think of me. Go comfort your
    Till they had stol'n our jewel. All's but nought;
    Ah, Gloucester, hide thee from their hateful looks,
    Not able to endure the sight of day,
    And here it rests-that you'll procure the vicar
  APEMANTUS. No;
    But come thy ways, we'll go along together,
    You can say none of this. Well, grant it then,
    my answer: Not that I loved Caesar less, but that I loved Rome
    To have a worthy feeding; but I have it
    Of reasonable affairs? Is he not stupid
  Ham. 'The Mousetrap.' Marry, how? Tropically. This play is the
    For he hath stol'n a pax, and hanged must 'a be-
    He shall have every day a several greeting,
    She was too good for me. But, as I said,
    on's grave.  
    Cleave in the midst and perish.
  PROTEUS. May't please your lordship, 'tis a word or two
    Doth speak of you, his cheek looks pale, and with
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
  FORD. Never.
    With the Duke of Suffolk.
    Have mov'd us and our Council that you shall
    As, force perforce, the age will pour it in-
    Your most grave belly was deliberate,
    The vigour and the picture of my youth.
    This gentle and unforc'd accord of Hamlet
at another, CAESAR, ANTONY, LEPIDUS, ENOBARBUS, MAECENAS, AGRIPPA,
    the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, by the name of Hero. She leans me

    In the grey vault of heaven; and by his light
    What could the belly answer?  
    Say 'pardon' first, and afterwards 'stand up.'
  Not prizing her poor infant's discontent;
    Some griefs are med'cinable; that is one of them,
  CLOWN. I would you had been by the ship-side, to have help'd her;
  LAUNCE. I am but a fool, look you, and yet I have the wit to think
    Diana, unless I be obtained by the manner of my father's will. I
    Frowns at this levity. Gentle lords, let's part;
  ANGELO. When I would pray and think, I think and pray
  ANTONY. Would thou and those thy scars had once prevail'd
  DUKE. Why then,
     Which know themselves, and you.
  AUMERLE. Cousin, farewell; what presence must not know,
  And for my self mine own worth do define,
    For till thou speak thou shalt not pass from hence.
    Thou wouldst as soon go kindle fire with snow
    Sweet Isabel, do yet but kneel by me;
    The hope of comfort. But for thee, fellow,
     In his own course.
    Doth ravish like enchanting harmony;
    Not learning more than the fond eye doth teach;
    arms again.
    your daughter told us of.  
    other men fitter to go out than I.
    But I a beam do find in each of three.
    Mercury.
  CRESSIDA. In kissing, do you render or receive?
     And when 'tis told, O that my heart would burst!
  CLARENCE. To London, all in post; and, as I guess,
    Which if thou hast considered, let us know
    Which long ere this we offer'd to the King,
  Bene. The flat transgression of a schoolboy who, being overjoyed
    To drink to these fair ladies, and a measure
    Where men enforced do speak anything.
  HECATE. O, well done! I commend your pains,
  WESTMORELAND. Base, fearful, and despairing Henry!
    That dare as well answer a man indeed
    about you. Security gives way to conspiracy. The mighty gods
  Hor. What is it you will see?
    thee, I am much deceived. But, adieu! these foolish drops do
    Thou hate and terror to prosperity,
           Cypress black as e'er was crow;
  CONSTANCE. And for mine too; when law can do no right,  
    If the first hour I shrink and run away.
    For shame! Leave Henry, and call Edward king.
    Of your good pleasure? If it be no more,
  Than public means which public manners breeds.
    mistress, and make much of her.
    What comfortable hour canst thou name
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Speak it here;
    So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows
  

  LORENZO. In such a night
  GARDINER. Receive him,
    Why thou against the Church, our holy mother,
    To fright our party.
    They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
    That you should think, we come not to offend,
    flow'ry way that leads to the broad gate and the great fire.
    But I can make respective in myself,
          Speak less than thou knowest,
  TRANIO. Of Mantua, sir? Marry, God forbid,
  MESSENGER. Antony
    I am disgrac'd, impeach'd, and baffl'd here;
    On their departure most of all show evil;
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    A fellow by the hand of nature mark'd,
    Be plainer with me; let me know my trespass
    And widow to Prince Arthur.
  VALENTINE. And how do yours?
  Accuse me thus, that I have scanted all,
    Whether Caesar will come forth today or no,
    Even in the faith of valour, to appear
    You see how simple and how fond I am.
  IAGO. Some wine, ho!
    Nor tempt the danger of my true defence;
  Queen. More matter, with less art.
The Volscian camp before Rome
ACT II. SCENE 1
  PORTER. You did nothing, sir.
  LUCIO. O pretty Isabella, I am pale at mine heart to see thine eyes
    husband, Master Brook, dwelling in a continual 'larum of
                       Enter Ross.
    To feed my innocent people.
    Out of the host. I must attend mine office,
  SHALLOW. Nay, you shall see my orchard, where, in an arbour, we
  And all those friends which I thought buried.
    Till the last trumpet. For charitable prayers,

  MRS. PAGE. Help to cover your master, boy. Call your men,

    And meet i' the hall together.

    Out of the shot and danger of desire.
      The lark, that tirra-lirra chants,
    Stand close up, or I'll make your head ache.
    I am a child to chiding.
Noise and tumult within. Enter PORTER and his MAN
    Their wonted liveries; and the mazed world,
  King. What is the cause, Laertes,
    This is no place; this house is but a butchery;
ACT I. SCENE 1
    than Wednesday last, i' good faith!- 'Neighbour Quickly,' says

  BURGUNDY. My vows are equal partners with thy vows.
    Thine own for ever, and I, thy Caliban,
    Of law and course of direct session
  SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  And yet a dispensation may be had.
    Varying in subjects as the eye doth roll
    Look on me with your welkin eye. Sweet villain!
  Ber. He.
  CYMBELINE. My daughter? What of her? Renew thy strength;
SCENE: Venice and Cyprus
    For Edward our son, that was Prince of Wales,


    You are welcome, masters; welcome, all.- I am glad to see thee
  But for his theft in pride of all his growth  
    heart! Pray God he be not bewitched.
  VALENTINE. What means your ladyship? Do you not like it?
    Mount thou my horse and hide thy spurs in him,

     Of th' extreme verge. For all beneath the moon
    dignity of the whole body.
  MESSENGER. Madam, according as your ladyship desir'd,
    To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes.
    Maintain a mourning ostentation,
    I do remember an apothecary,
    But he bears both the sentence and the sorrow
  ROSALIND. No, faith, die by attorney. The poor world is almost six
  GONZALO. Who in this kind of merry fooling am nothing to
    To have him kill a king- poor trespasses,
    The clock upbraids me with the waste of time.
    With painted imagery had said at once  
    Constant in spirit, not swerving with the blood,

    If any come, Hector shall honour him;
    There's none Protector of the realm but I.
    From certain and possess'd conveniences
                   CAPTAINS and soldiers and a HERALD
  PUCELLE. First let me tell you whom you have condemn'd:
    He sends this bloody napkin. Are you he?
anything I know, Falstaff shall die of a sweat, unless already 'a be
Scene IV.
    swaggerers here; I have not liv'd all this while to have
  Sir M. Why, my good lord, you need not fear;
  CYMBELINE. No tidings of him?
    Came he right now to sing a raven's note,
    That winter should cut off our spring-time so.  
  BARDOLPH. Yea, sir, in a pottle-pot.
    Well, nobles, well, 'tis politicly done
    To triumph like an Amazonian trull
    leaves him. The Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes

  PUCELLE. I prithee give me leave to curse awhile.

  SICINIUS. Consul! What consul?
    Of heaven, not me, make an experiment.
  PETRUCHIO. How but well, sir? how but well?
  CHIEF JUSTICE. He that was in question for the robb'ry?
  That thou consum'st thy self in single life?
    The other turns to a mirth-moving jest,

  FALSTAFF. And these are not fairies? I was three or four
             This flower's force in stirring love.
    Of England's coat one half is cut away.
    And pluck nights from me, but not lend a morrow;
  SERVANT. These were his very words.
    Your hidden worthiness into your eye
    But dead they are, and, devilish slave, by thee.
    Sweet, sweet, Sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?  
  JOHN. And shall my youth be guilty of such blame?
    Which did incorporate and make us one,
    Tell her I have chastis'd the amorous Troyan,
    Of those that turn'd their backs, and in his flight,
    But get you to Smithfield, and gather head,
  EDWARD. But for a kingdom any oath may be broken:
    Whom he reports to be a great magician,
    part. Mark how short his answer is: With Hero, Leonato's short
    I'll set thee in a shower of gold, and hail
    The lunatic, the lover, and the poet,
    Ye should do service. Hark! the trumpets sound;
    And yet take this again- and yet I thank you-
    Who steals my purse steals trash; 'tis something, nothing;
    Thou ever strong upon the stronger side!
  HELENA. Nor you, mistress,
  SUFFOLK. Suffolk's imperial tongue is stem and rough,
    By a commission from the Consistory,
    which have walked in their sleep who have died holily in their
  CASSIO. 'Zounds! You rogue! You rascal!
    The mort o' th' deer. O, that is entertainment
    Another's issue.
    So let high-sighted tyranny range on
    Brook, thou shalt know I will predominate over the
    Henry Lord Scroop of Masham, and the third,
  APEMANTUS. Let me stay at thine apperil, Timon.  
    Was ne'er distributed.
    Be gone!
    And a thousand fragrant posies.
    English- Canst thou love me?

                                                         [Reads]
    Exeunt
    Could but be brought to know our ends are honest,
  BASSANIO. You shall not seal to such a bond for me;
  CAIUS. By gar, de herring is no dead so as I vill kill him. Take
    For from my heart thine image ne'er shall go;
    That he would wed me, or else die my lover.
     For, by the sacred radiance of the sun,
    One, her hairs were gold; crystal the other's eyes.
  MRS. FORD. But is my husband coming?
    The time of life- arming myself with patience

  BASTARD. Withhold thine indignation, mighty heaven,
    And hollow pamper'd jades of Asia,
               But silence, like a Lucrece knife,
  ROSALIND. No; I will not cast away my physic but on those that are
    As perfectly is ours as yours, my lord;
    disputable for my company. I think of as many matters as he; but
    I'll jest a twelvemonth in an hospital.

    Or gild again the noble troops that waited
    these hairs is Paris my husband?' 'The forked one,' quoth he,
    Let my presumption not provoke thy wrath,
    go.
  Other Spirits attending on Prospero
THE END
    Rising and cawing at the gun's report,
     Got 'tween the lawful sheets.
  MARCUS. Tear for tear and loving kiss for kiss
  DUKE. Silence that fellow. I would he had some cause
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    By th' height, the lowness, or the mean, if dearth
    Till then, not show my head where thou mayst prove me.
    mine; and writ to me this other day to turn him out o' th' band.
    How his companion, youthful Valentine,
    Out-go my thinking on you.
  HOST. My hand, bully; thou shalt have egress and regress-
    That strain again! It had a dying fall;
    And we are barren and bereft of friends,  
    By flattery hath he won the commons' hearts;
    they travail for, if it be just and true report that goes of his
  Fran. Not a mouse stirring.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Believe me, noble lord,
  SOMERSET. It is too late; I cannot send them now.

  Capt. God b' wi' you, sir.                             [Exit.]
    And break it to our hope. I'll not fight with thee.
    Most useful for thy country.
    Have you not sometimes seen a handkerchief
    My father's spirit- in arms? All is not well.
  MALVOLIO, steward to Olivia
    And when I ope my lips let no dog bark.'
    keep it close. Home, home, the next way! We are lucky, boy; and

    And entertain'd me with mine own device;
                   Enter YORK, WARWICK, and others
    And strays about to find 'em.
    Who with them was a rated sinew too
  CARDINAL. Sirs, take away the Duke, and guard him sure.

  KING. It shall suffice me; at which interview
    For the remembrance of my father's death.
    Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt.
    My dangerous cousin, let your mother in.
    Tell Master Parson Evans I will do what I can for your
  FABIAN, servant to Olivia
    Depart the chamber, leave us here alone.
                                   Exeunt COSTARD and JAQUENETTA
  MACDUFF. Is the King stirring, worthy Thane?
  STEWARD.  [Reads]  'I am Saint Jaques' pilgrim, thither gone.
SCENE II.
    And carry with us ears and eyes for th' time,
  MOTH. I will praise an eel with the same praise.
     Who, having seen me in my worst estate,
            'A Talbot! A Talbot!' They fly, leaving their
  GENTLEMAN. But few,  
    the world's end after my name-call them all Pandars; let all
  KATHERINE. Sauf votre honneur, le Francais que vous parlez, il est
    And with a virtuous vizor hide deep vice!
  STEPHANO. Come, swear to that; kiss the book. I will


    Stick deep, and in his royalty of nature
  DEMETRIUS. No, no, he will
    They draw but what they see, know not the heart.
  MARGERY JOURDAIN, a witch
    removed my horse and tied him I know not where. If I travel but

  ANGELO. How now, sir! What's your name, and what's the matter?
    I am sick of this false world, and will love nought
    With thousands of these quarter'd slaves, as high
  TRANIO. Mistress Bianca, bless you with such grace

    For, to yourself, what you do know, you must,
  Claud. To what end? He would make but a sport of it and torment the
    must be weighed rather by her value than his own, words him, I
  And each doth good turns now unto the other,
    And then I need not crave his courtesy.
ACT III. SCENE I.
    That dares do justice on my proper son;
    For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly
  POET. The senators of Athens- happy man!
Southampton. A council-chamber
    always the dullness of the fool is the whetstone of the wits. How
    Except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds,
    a she-lamb of a twelvemonth to crooked-pated, old, cuckoldly ram,
    Make poor men's cattle break their necks;
    Hast thou the pretty worm of Nilus there
  Ham. [aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind!
    You'll make a mutiny among my guests!
    guests? 'Tis well they are whisp'ring. Clammer your tongues, and
  CLEOPATRA. And target. Still he mends;
    Her length of sickness, with what else more serious
  VALENTINE. That's the letter I writ to her friend.
    With lusty sinews, throwing it aside
  Pedro. Well, you will temporize with the hours. In the meantime,
    To be the pillage of a giglot wench.'
    It is most retrograde to our desire;

  POLIXENES. This is a brave fellow.
    I will dispatch him to the Emperor's court.
  To show me worthy of thy sweet respect,
  BRUTUS. Or else were this a savage spectacle.
    I do not without danger walk these streets:
    presently.
  ANNE. I come to him.  [Aside]  This is my father's choice.
  POSTHUMUS. The stone's too hard to come by.
    I were a baby still. I love you better.
  A reverend man that grazed his cattle nigh,
    Of him that did not ask but mock, bestow
    I have not kept my square; but that to come
    Whose double bosoms seems to wear one heart,
 Exit
  Of stale example? When thou wilt inflame,

    I never tempted her with word too large,
  When yellow leaves, or none, or few do hang
    She should have stay'd in France, and starv'd in France,  
    That blood should sprinkle me to make me grow.
    My vouch against you, and my place i' th' state,
  DUKE. And also, I think, thou art not ignorant
SCENE II.
  HERMIA. My good Lysander!
  Ham. Do you see nothing there?
             Golden lads and girls all must,
  Ham. That I can keep your counsel, and not mine own. Besides, to be
    nephew?
  SIR TOBY. With drinking healths to my niece; I'll drink to her as
  Prince. Why, you whoreson round man, what's the matter?
  CHARMIAN. Madam!  
  Nurse. (within) Madam!
    And fearfully did menace me with death
    have we a prescription to die when death is our physician.
    I fear I am attended by some spies.
    That Hector, by the fifth hour of the sun,  
    Even to the frozen ridges of the Alps,
  PEMBROKE. There tell the King he may inquire us out.
    you to abrogate scurrility.
    That set thee on to this desert, am bound
  SICILIUS. Peep through thy marble mansion. Help!
  KING. How, madam! Russians!
    Albeit against my conscience and my soul.
    Publius, Publius, hast thou done?
    We live to tell it-that the subtle traitor
    From which advantage shall we cut him off
            Then, heigh-ho, the holly!
    Steps me a little higher than his vow
    Our captains, Macbeth and Banquo.?
    See, here he comes, and I must ply my theme.
DUKE. One of these men is genius to the other;
    He cried almost to roaring; and he wept
    But when your countenance filled up his line,

    'Tis like, my lord, you will not keep your hour.
    Nan Page my daughter, and my little son,
    the very middest of you! and heavens and honour be witness that
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
  SECOND SENATOR. We stand much hazard if they bring not Timon.
    Are from their hives and houses driven away.
     Would with his daughter speak, commands her service.

    And let the foes quietly cut their throats,
  HOSTESS. Good my lord, be good to me. I beseech you, stand to me.
    If ever Bassianus, Caesar's son,
  BERTRAM. Why, do you think he will make no deed at all of this that
                of PACORUS borne before him

        Enter Hamlet and Guildenstern [with Attendants].
    Let it not, Brutus.
  POMPEY. Sir, but you shall come to it, by your honour's leave. And,
    have it so. How chance my brother Troilus went not?
    Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
  ANTONY. Thrice nobler than myself!
    here, sir, amongst the rest of the country copulatives, to swear
  What error drives our eyes and ears amiss?
    windmill in Saint George's Field?
  PAGE. The night is dark; light and spirits will become it well.
  TIMON. Freely, good father.
    Therefore thou sleep'st so sound.
    And therein negligent; or else a fool
    Which were inshell'd when Marcius stood for Rome,
  DIOMEDES. Or covetous of praise.
    Hath beat down enon; bastard Margarelon
    On this side Tiber; he hath left them you,
    Too wide for Neptune's hips; how chances mock,
    Into what pitch he please.
  ANTONY. Nay, nay, Octavia, not only that-
    on's, a barne! A very pretty barne. A boy or a child, I wonder? A

    My sovereign lord, I do beseech your Highness
         A cup of wine that's brisk and fine,
    look'd for Master Caius, that calls himself Doctor of
    And to my humble seat conform myself.
    And never trouble Peter for the matter.
    Could never go so slow. I have heard of riding wagers
                     amazedly following

    thou art a knave to call me so.
  SOMERSET. And he that will not fight for such a hope,  
    are made of puddings.
    had the ache in his shoulders! O, you shall see him laugh till
  GLOUCESTER. Witness my tears, I cannot stay to speak.
      And never come mischance between us twain!
    Dewlapp'd like bulls, whose throats had hanging at 'em

    desire you to make your answer before him. If it be honest you
  VALENTINE. No more; unless the next word that thou speak'st
          In the spring time, &c.
  And under thee their poesy disperse.
  OTHELLO. Excellent wretch! Perdition catch my soul,
    fly?
    His fault concludes but what the law should end,
  PAROLLES. Yet am I thankful. If my heart were great,
    Cannot deny; he hath done no Briton harm
    amongst 'em, I think surely.  
  CLEOPATRA. See, Caesar! O, behold,  
                                 Exeunt Duke, Senators, and Officers.
    Yet the first bringer of unwelcome news
    Turning the word to sword, and life to death.
    by being once lost may be ten times found; by being ever kept, it
  Glou. O villain, villain! His very opinion in the letter! Abhorred

 Exit  
  CAESAR. I wrote to you
    This night englutted! Who is not Lord Timon's?
  VIOLA. I'll do my best
    The royalties and rights of banish'd Hereford?


  PETRUCHIO. And you, good sir! Pray, have you not a daughter


    That shall express my true love's fasting pain.
    That we must leave thee to thy sinking, for
  PROTEUS. Where is that ring, boy?
     This sword of mine shall give them instant way
  TITUS. No, not a word. How can I grace my talk,
    And in his ear I'll holloa 'Mortimer.'
    That late broke from the Duke of Exeter,
  Ham. Words, words, words.
    Find little.
  PARIS. Well said, my lord. Well, you say so in fits.
    All night for lesser cause, and ne'er been sick.
    the sky, the welkin, the heaven; and anon falleth like a crab on
    I am the Prince of Wales; and think not, Percy,
    Would you not deem it breath'd, and that those veins
  CLOWN. Faith, madam, I have other holy reasons, such as they are.
    That shall enmesh them all.
    That still I lay upon my mother's head;
    Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber;
    Shall have a thousand crowns for his reward.
    I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke,
    Rouse him, make after him, poison his delight,

  CRESSIDA. Amen.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. How long is this ago?
    That I was not ignoble of descent:
  BOYET. I am much deceived but I remember the style.
    by the moon And the seven stars, and not by Phoebus, he, that
     With shadowy forests and with champains rich'd,
    And do expect him here some two hours hence.
    purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a
     The bloody proclamation to escape
    Writing destruction on the enemy's castle?
    Of him that makes it; then, if sickly ears,
    Shall win my love; and so I take my leave,
              attendants. LUCIUS, MARCUS, and the others descend
    turning, turn of no hand, but turn down indirectly to the Jew's
    The Douglas is, and I beseech Your Grace
  Yet in these thoughts my self almost despising,
  OTHELLO. What noise is this? Not dead? not yet quite dead?
  For as you were when first your eye I eyed,
  MOTH. Come, you transgressing slave, away.
    Graze where you will, you shall not house with me.
     Which tie him to an answer. Our wishes on the way
    Thy noble brother Titus and his sons,
    I do not know that Englishman alive
    Brave me upon the watch, whereon it came
    The laws, your curb and whip, in their rough power
    mine own people.

    may draw his heart out ere 'a pluck one.
    The Archbishop's Grace of York, Douglas, Mortimer
  Say that I linger'd with you at your shop
     Owes nothing to thy blasts.
  BOY. As young as I am, I have observ'd these three swashers. I am
    In the unpartial judging of this business.
    You shall not stir out of your house today.
    Shall stay with us- Order for sea is given;
           Leave me not behind thee.
The palace
    wood; our wizards we will change after we leave them; and,
    I would not shave't to-day.
  NESTOR. A woman of quick sense.
    Could fetch your brother from the manacles
    misdoubt. Pray you leave me. Stall this in your bosom; and I
      But, orderly to end where I begun,  
     Bids the wind blow the earth into the sea,
  VOLUMNIUS. That's not an office for a friend, my lord.
    For where thou art, there is the world itself,
    Go, signify as much, while here we march
  CASSIUS. I know where I will wear this dagger then:
                     Enter a MESSENGER, hastily
    Men, wives, and children stare, cry out, and run
    too, and with the other confederate companion!
  LAUNCE. No, neither.
    Creeps in this petty pace from day to day
    But you must know, your father lost a father;
    Half sleep, half waking; but as yet, I swear,
    Shall have a high reward, and he his life?
    We have beat them to their beds. What, girl! though grey
  Old Man. O my good lord,  
    achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon 'em. Thy
  Glou. Here, take this Purse, thou whom the heavens' plagues
  Claud. And she is exceeding wise.
    mint, you should have bang'd the youth into dumbness. This was
  CLEOPATRA. What say you? Hence,                  [Strikes him]
    To keep his daughter company; whose loves
    And her withholds from me, and other more,  
    Yet if thy thoughts, Bianca, be so humble
  SPEED. Why, sir, I know her not.
    shall not fear fly-blowing.
    And say 'twill do, I know within a while
  DUKE. I wish you now, then;
    Go then; and with a countenance as clear
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
  Fran. I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who is there?
  BEROWNE. Is she wedded or no?
    Devis'd impeachments to imprison him.
    peradventure prings goot discretions with it. There is Anne
    And nothing come in partial. Sir, he must die.
  RICHARD. No; God forbid your Grace should be forsworn.
    To ruminate on this so far, until
    shall have whipping-cheer enough, I warrant her. There hath been

    thanks than you took pains to thank me.' That's as much as to
    Who broils in loud applause, and make him fall
    Never to England shall he bear his life,
    Retire thee; go where thou art billeted.
  Ham. How if I answer no?
  CARDINAL. God's secret judgment! I did dream to-night
    To show his teeth as white as whales-bone;
  MIRANDA. Alas, now; pray you,
    And all the courses of my life do show
    revenge.
    for a secure and wilful Actaeon; and to these violent proceedings
  SLY. Well, we'll see't. Come, madam wife, sit by my side and let
  Ham. So you must take your husbands.- Begin, murtherer. Pox, leave
    And let my officers of such a nature
  BUCKINGHAM. Then I salute you with this royal title-
                          Re-enter SNOUT
    I was too strict to make mine own away;
  And here the Abbess shuts the gates on us,
    Sends you his princely commendations
    I writ at random, very doubtfully.
  THIRD CITIZEN. There's not a nobler man in Rome than Antony.

    Of their best trust; o'er them Aufidius,
  HELENA. Look on this letter, madam; here's my passport.  
  FALSTAFF.  [Above]  How now, mine host?
  GRIFFITH. She is asleep. Good wench, let's sit down quiet,
    And so I hope he came by't. Back my ring.
    How one man eats into another's pride,
    both in word and matter, hang me up by the heels for a
    Not like a formal man.
    occasion, let her never nurse her child herself, for she will
    Between two dogs, which hath the deeper mouth;
                                       [Trumpets sound a parley]
    Be certain, nothing truer; 'tis no jest
      'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd.
    If they return in their own shapes to woo?
  JULIA. It may not be; good madam, pardon me.
    of fiends. But cuckold! Wittol! Cuckold! the devil himself
    Now by my maiden honour, yet as pure
    To gnaw their garners. Worshipful mutineers,
    Shall I have justice? What says Jupiter?
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
    And then my husband (God be with his soul!
                         [Enter a Gentleman.]
    And then dreams he of smelling out a suit;

    Is bound for Italy; he embark'd at Milford;
    England.
Enter AMIENS, JAQUES, and OTHERS
    But we keep whole by land. This speed of Caesar's
    What, art thou like the adder waxen deaf?
  FIRST WATCH. This last day was
    He needs no indirect or lawless course
    Guard me, beseech ye!
        Lives in death with glorious fame.
  SALERIO. There is more difference between thy flesh and hers than
    Drown desperate sorrow in dead Edward's grave,

    The fresh-brook mussels, wither'd roots, and husks
    To scorn at our solemnity this night.
    In humours like the people of this world,
  ALL. Live, Brutus, live, live!
  AUFIDIUS. We hate alike:
    Full of wise saws and modern instances;

    And all the household servants fled with him
    Say his long trouble now is passing
  KING. Thy wish was father, Harry, to that thought.
     Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, SLENDER, HOST, SIR HUGH EVANS,
  DOLL. Away, you cut-purse rascal! you filthy bung, away! By this
    Romans, countrymen, and lovers! Hear me for my cause, and be
    or bound my horse for her favours, I could lay on like a butcher,
    My legs can keep no pace with my desires.  

    Or else new form'd 'em; having both the key

    The noble gentleman gave up the ghost.
  MACBETH. Saw you the weird sisters?
  WIFE. Most true, forsooth; and many time and oft
    Is for my better grace. Adieu, my lord.
    Lessen'd herself and in the beams o' th' sun
    Let the birds fly, and like the famous ape,
    Or than for strength and safety of our country.
  QUINCE. It is not possible. You have not a man in all Athens able
    My men should call me 'lord'; I am your goodman.
    pays the shot.
    Our armour all as strong, our cause the best;
    So full of valour that they smote the air
    Her coronation. Katharine no more

    But that I am your most obedient servant.

    No, no, on my soul, it never shall be said.
                                                         Exeunt.
    Will greet us here anon. My gentle Varrius!           Exeunt
    Which taken at the flood leads on to fortune;
    Who of their broken debtors take a third,
    My father's of a better nature, sir,
    That can from Hector bring those honours off,
  As, nimble jugglers that deceive the eye,
     than thou art now: I am a fool, thou art nothing.
    Go thou with him, and when it is thy hap
    the matter I challenge thee for.'
    Amongst the soldiers this is muttered
    And thereupon I drink unto your Grace.
  ARCHBISHOP. Go, good Lord Hastings,
    Being a thing immortal as itself?  
    Come quickly, Montague, or I am dead.
  AUSTRIA. King Philip, listen to the Cardinal.
    Made him my book, wherein my soul recorded
  With insufficiency my heart to sway,
    Nor claim no further than your new-fall'n right,
  IACHIMO. And himself. Not I
    What mightst thou do that honour would thee do,  

    Look on my wrongs with an indifferent eye.
    I will forward with my device. [To the PRINCESS] Sweet royalty,
  DION. If th' event o' th' journey
    As all things shall redound unto your good.  
    I combat challenge of this latten bilbo.
    I'll show't the King, and undertake to be
    Recoil upon me- in himself too mighty,
  TOUCHSTONE. Then thou art damn'd.
     To match you where I hate; therefore beseech you
    The cestern of my lust, and my desire
   and looks pale, as if a bear were at his heels.
    Accusing it, I put it on my head,
    Or if they sleep, thy picture in my sight

     Than prais'd for harmful mildness.
    fish, languageless, a monster. A plague of opinion! A man may
    That you are worth your breeding- which I doubt not;
    Fall'n in the practice of a damned slave,
    Unless thou rescue him from foul despair?
  At length the sun, gazing upon the earth,
    That what we have we prize not to the worth
    Proceed to judgment. By my soul I swear
Enter TITUS, bearing arrows with letters on the ends of them;
  ENOBARBUS. Nay, I have done.


  JULIA. Why not on Proteus, as of all the rest?
    I will appeach the villain.
  TRINCULO. Nor go neither; but you'll lie like dogs, and
                        Enter APEMANTUS
    As God's own soldier, rounded in the ear
    That shall she, marry; I remember it well.
    An if what pleases him shall pleasure you.
    If we, with thrice such powers left at home,
  GLOUCESTER. I'll to the Tower with all the haste I can
  PANDARUS. Words pay no debts, give her deeds; but she'll bereave
    And raze their faction and their family,
    basket-hilt stale juggler, you! Since when, I pray you, sir?
  GRATIANO. Poor Desdemon! I am glad thy father's dead.

    Let us go thank him, and encourage him;
    Brabbler the hound; but when he performs, astronomers foretell
                          SCENE:
  MARSHAL. On pain of death, no person be so bold
  CASSIUS. Then, Brutus, I have much mistook your passion,  
    Ordain'd our laws- whose use the sword of Caesar
    on thee
    song now.  
    That do renown this city.
    And will not trust one of her malice with
  THURIO. Who? Silvia?
       Enter Romeo, and Balthasar with a torch, a mattock,
    And doves will peck in safeguard of their brood.

    Who then dares to be half so kind again?
    Since I must lose the use of all deceit?
    In solemn show attend this funeral,
    And then I'll presently attend you.
    is hot, and the weather, and the wars, and the King, and the
  DUCHESS. Well said, my masters; and welcome all. To this gear, the
    How he doth stand affected to our purpose;  
                     [Here they shoot and SALISBURY and GARGRAVE
  CALIBAN. I prithee let me bring thee where crabs grow;
    My heart this covenant makes, my hand thus seals it.
  LORD. Do you intend to stay with me to-night?
    The soldiers' music and the rites of war
    Know you me yet?

    One, Kate, that you must kiss and be acquainted with.
  BUCKINGHAM. My hair doth stand an end to hear her curses.
  EARL OF CAMBRIDGE, conspirator against the King
    Henry the Sixth, in infant bands crown'd king
    And no conception nor no jealous toy
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
    in truth, la. Nay, I care not for such words; no, no. -And, my
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
  IACHIMO,  Italian, friend to Philario
    That thou but leadest this fashion of thy malice
  COSTARD. [To Sir Nathaniel] O, Sir, you have overthrown Alisander
  EVANS. He has no more knowledge in Hibocrates and
    Thus yields the cedar to the axe's edge,
  SECOND LORD. [Aside] His steel was in debt; it went o' th' back
    How shall I dote on her with more advice

    Katherine, that cap of yours becomes you not:

    Our King and company; the next, our ship-
    And let the soul forth that adoreth thee,  
    Scant not my cups, and make as much of me
  TIMON. Commend me to them,
    Till I do challenge it. Give him the crowns;
    Now she is there, how will she specify
    To look into the blots and stains of right.
    Save you your labor. He that lies slain here, Cassio,
    hundred paces of your tents.
    He commands us to provide and give great gifts,
  MACDUFF. I believe drink gave thee the lie last night.
  Leon. Wherefore? Why, doth not every earthly thing
    Destroy our friends, and after weep their dust;  

    Caesar said to me, "Darest thou, Cassius, now
    And wet my cheeks with artificial tears,  
  OTHELLO. Had all his hairs been lives, my great revenge
  MARULLUS. But what trade art thou? Answer me directly.
    That, by confessing them, the souls of men
    If for his tender here I make some stay.         [Lies down]
  EVANS. Pless you from his mercy sake, all of you!
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I mean not cuckold-mad;
     With reservation of an hundred knights,
  SPEED. What, are they broken?
  FIRST GUARD. This is an aspic's trail; and these fig-leaves

    While I do run upon it. Wilt thou, Strato?
    No bond but to do just ones. Gods! if you
  OTHELLO. Ay, you did wish that I would make her turn.
    To give these mourning duties to your father;
    Like a remorseful pardon slowly carried,
    But, for the concord of my state and time,
    Be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
    But were the day come, I should wish it dark,  

  SICINIUS. Peace!

    His help to crave and my dear hap to tell.
    I will kneel to him.
ADRIANA. Why should their liberty than ours be more?
    JOHN FALSTAFF.'
    well.
    Which ent'red their frail shins. At last I left them
  MENENIUS. What is granted them?
    Delighted them in any other form,
                      Re-enter three citizens more
    too; he does it with a better grace, but I do it more natural.
    It is the lark that sings so out of tune,
    water and bran; I dare not for my head fill my belly; one
  MARINER. Ay, my lord, and fear
  LUCIO. A little more lenity to lechery would do no harm in him;


  FIRST CAPTAIN. So 'tis reported;  
             Here shall he see  
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
    They wound my thoughts worse than thy sword my flesh.
               FORD and MISTRESS PAGE, following
    I now begin with grief and shame to utter:
    And you shall well be spar'd.
  KING HENRY. What treasure, uncle?
    Because you bought them; shall I say to you
    the extremity of the one it must needs be.
  KING HENRY. Ungentle Queen, to call him gentle Suffolk!
    Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
  Edg. Bear free and patient thoughts.
  1. Mus. Marry, sir, because silver hath a sweet sound.
    And subjects none abroad; pray you, look in.
    And, nephew, challeng'd you to single fight.
  PRINCE. Welcome, my lord. What, will our mother come?

    But when your carters or your waiting-vassals
    And hug it in mine arms.
  Mess. He cannot come, my lord; he is grievous sick.
     That keep this dreadful pudder o'er our heads,
    Would not have touch'd, would not have stain'd with blood;
  CLOTEN. Was there ever man had such luck! When I kiss'd the jack,
    Had answer'd him.

  CLOWN. [Sings] Hey, Robin, jolly Robin,
    By desperate appliance are reliev'd,
    A housewife that by selling her desires

    You promis'd, when you parted with the King,
  Both. Longer, longer.
    Should she kneel down in mercy of this fact,
  IAGO. Come on, come on. You are pictures out of doors,
    promise.
    Thank me no thankings, nor proud me no prouds,


SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
  CHARMIAN. Like her? O Isis! 'tis impossible.
    Kneel thou down Philip, but rise more great-
  Rom. Courage, man. The hurt cannot be much.
  AENEAS. [Within] My lord, is the lady ready?
  VIOLA. Art not thou the Lady Olivia's fool?
    In fine, redeem'd I was as I desir'd.
  FIRST LORD. Beseech your Highness, call the Queen again.
    What may be sworn by, both divine and human,
    And is his oracle.
    Enter at a distance, HOST, and JULIA in boy's clothes
  Urs. She's lim'd, I warrant you! We have caught her, madam.
    Have lost my daughter.
  FIRST LORD. Behind the tuft of pines I met them; never
    And sigh'd my English breath in foreign clouds,
    We cannot feel too little, hear too much.
    My lady, to the manner of the days,
    Wilt thou be daunted at a woman's sight?
  PUCK. Elves, list your names; silence, you airy toys.
    I have forgiven and forgotten all;
    Found thee a way, out of his wreck, to rise in-
  KING HENRY. What mean'st thou, Suffolk? Tell me, what are these?
    whither wilt?' ROSALIND. Nay, you might keep that check for it, till you met your
    And of buxom valour, hath by cruel fate
    noted outward garments.
  ANNE. Despiteful tidings! O unpleasing news!
  YORK. In your protectorship you did devise
    Call Philostrate.
    The sweet degrees that this brief world affords
    Thy letters have transported me beyond
    suits with gentlemen of your knowing to a stranger of his
    With what a majesty he bears himself;
    But you, Lorenzo, whether I am yours?
  Hero. Nothing certainer.
    grave-making?
  CASSIUS. I did not. He was but a fool
  Whilst like a willing patient I will drink,
  DONALBAIN. [Aside to Malcolm.] What should be spoken here, where
    This tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues,

    Her virtues, graced with external gifts,
    My ear should catch your voice, my eye your eye,
                     Enter OLIVIA and MALVOLIO
    If Hercules and Lichas play at dice
  PANDARUS, uncle to Cressida
